---


src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/online-business-plan-and-due-diligence-reporting-system-and-data-storage
 
 
 ONLINE BUSINESS PLAN AND DUE DILIGENCE REPORTING SYSTEM AND DATA STORAGE
 
 
 The Funding Roadmap provides the best networked online eco-friendly business planning and reporting solution with complete transparency to help achieve the goals of the government , entrepreneurs, investors and lenders alike. 
 
 The <a title="http://www.fundingroadmap.com/" href="http://www.fundingroadmap.com/" target="_blank"> www.Fundingroadmap .com </a> can markedly improve the odds of financing a small business by providing a fast, affordable, web-based business plan alternative for the millions of Americans willing and able to take the job of economic stimulation into their own hands. This is a timely matchmaking tool for the marriage of capital to new and expanding businesses 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/online-cascading-performance-budgets-and-performance-reports
 
 
 Online cascading performance budgets and performance reports
 
 
 
 There is a new software solution now available that was
specifically designed to bring exactly this type of transparency and
accountability to federal agency spending, called CASCADE(tm) Performance Based
Budgeting Software. As the <a class="external-link" href="http://www.strategisys.com/software.html"> online video demo </a>
illustrates, CASCADE(tm) enables large government agencies to develop both
long-term strategic plans and annual performance budgets that show the measurable
goals, strategies, and budget costs on a program-by-program and
manager-by-manager basis. 
 
 With CASCADE(tm), program managers can also create separate goals
that relate just to Recovery Act funding and indicate that this spending is
distinct from their regular program budget amounts. For a federal agency with hundreds - even thousands - of
managers spread around the country, CASCADE(tm) can create a single, integrated,
online document with a hierarchical goal structure, showing cascading
performance budgets by program office and location all the way down through the
organization - with the responsible manager identified each step of the way.
And at each step, both the regular program goals, strategies, spending and
results, and the Recovery Act goals, strategies, spending and results, may be
shown for every organization and sub-unit. 
 
 This means that with this new software tool, an agency can
document how each element of Recovery Act spending achieves measurable results
that relate to existing program goals, a summary of the implementation
strategy, and who is responsible for guiding the effort. 
 
 CASCADE(tm) was designed by John Mercer, the "father of GPRA"
and is the result of a joint development project by Strategisys LLC
(Alexandria, VA) and Integrated Digital Systems, Inc. (Manassas, VA). The software includes many other useful
and unique features that strengthen performance planning, budgeting, management
and accountability in federal agencies, in addition to its ability to bring
performance-related transparency to Recovery Act spending. For more information see <a href="http://www.strategisys.com/software.html">www.strategisys.com/software.html</a>
or send an inquiry to <a href="mailto:contact@strategisys.com">contact@strategisys.com</a>. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CASCADE(tm) provides exactly the type of operational
transparency and accountability that President Obama has called for, that
federal managers need, and that the American public deserves. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/tracking-through-google-earth-and-web-cam
 
 
 Tracking through Google Earth and web cam
 
 An opportunity exists to expand Recovery.gov into a site that enables citizens to track recovery projects and how their money is being spent, and does so in an engaging way that encourages citizen participation, and hopefully rallies consumer confidence and enthusiasm. 
 
 This idea involves posting ARRA stimulus projects on Google Earth so that people can sort and view projects by location, size or type. They could then 'fly' to the project location and see a graphic simulation of the project; read about the project (goals, costs, jobs created, timelines, org charts, project plans) and track progress visually through Earthcam or project specific web camera; meet the project manager and get updates; watch people working; find out if jobs are available; get links to job training programs etc. Scientific research projects could 'fly' people into a lab where the scientist would present his/her thesis, discuss the research and status of the research, and ultimately present the results. Clean energy projects could tour entrepreneurial companies engaged in solar, wind, clean coal, algae, electric cars - generating enthusiasm for what's coming, and possibly even investment interest. 
 
 This vision obviously involves Google Earth, Recovery.gov, Earthcam or web camera network, and possibly the engagement of an army of citizen volunteers. 
 
 Implementation 
 
 Implementation would involve the addition of a line item in the communications segment of every project plan. The manager would submit basic project information related to location, costs, jobs, project plan, org chart for posting on the Google Earth 'Recovery' layer. 
 
 A working group would categorize projects as they are approved, and recommend how they should be presented. . 
 
 Category A - important, high visibility projects such as infrastructure projects - light rail, highways and bridges, energy projects - smart grid and wind farms, and environmental restoration are longer term and lend themselves to graphic simulation, and on-site video and tracking. 
 
 Category B - large, high priority projects such as 21 st century classrooms, and computerized health records are not solely geographic, and don't lend themselves to weekly tracking but do lend themselves to visual example. 
 
 Category C - Big ideas for multiple small projects that create many jobs and should be implemented everywhere such as home weatherization, and Infrastructure repairs and upgrades, would show a generalized how to video. 
 
 Category D - Major Research and Development programs that lend themselves educational video, or tours of innovative, entrepreneurial companies. 
 
 Category E - Equipment purchases that can be shown by photo record. 
 
 Category F - Training and jobs programs could be plotted locally, but also linked to like projects nationwide. 
 
 All projects would be posted on Google Earth in a special Recovery.gov layer and identified by placemarks - state or agency designated ARRA logo. Each site would be linked to the required contracts, invoices, payroll data etc. on their respective state, and agency sites. 
 
 Certain key projects could be assigned to a group of creative and technical professionals who would develop additional 3D SketchUps to simulate e.g. light rail routes, new bridges, green buildings. The group could even encourage submissions from job applicants as part of an 'Apprenticeship' 
 
 Citizen volunteers could be engaged to conduct interviews with project managers, take videos, set up web cams, and monitor and promote interest in projects locally. 
 
 
 
 1. Links existing technology programs and networks to turn Recovery.gov into a picture window through which citizens can view stimulus projects and monitor the expenditure and use of recovery funds. 
 
 2. Leverages technology to create jobs and volunteer opportunities, and catalyzes active citizenship and private public sector partnerships. 
 
 3. Creates a virtual 21 st Century Classroom that uses technology and geography to expose and educate people about the 'work' of the nation, and links them to the resources they'll need to participate. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/linked-open-data
 
 
 Linked Open Data
 
 This data must be put up using the current open standards, as Linked Open Data. There is already a rapidly growing Linked Open Data cloud, to which US recovery data will be a welcome addition. The priority should be on the provision of, as we say, "Raw Data Now!". 
 
 1. Linked Data allows different things in different datasets of all kinds to be connected. When you put data on the web, the added value you get is from the way it can be queried in combination with other data you might not even be aware of. 
 People will be connecting this data with scientific data, community data, social web data, enterprise data, and government data from other agencies and organization, and other countries, to ask all kinds of interesting questions not asked before. This data must be put up with an awareness that it is one among many data sources with which it will later be linked together. 2. Linked data is decentralized. Each agency can source its own data without a big cumbersome centralized system. The data can be stitched together at the edges, more as one builds a quilt than the way one builds a nuclear power station. This stitching can be done as and when it is valuable. Some of it may be an activity volunteer communities can help with. 3. The Linked Open Data movement uses open royalty-free standards from W3C. These do not bind the federal government to any specific supplier. 4. There are many organizations an companies who will be motivated by the presence of the data to provide all kinds of human access to this data, for specific communities, to answer specific questions, often in connection with other data from different sites. They will in many ways provide more powerful tools than the recovery web site itself can ever do using only its own data. This is a very important initiative. To have federal data available online in open standards will be very valuable to all kinds of people in the US and in fact world wide. The recovery data is a great opportunity to set an example for future government data. A secondary priority for any agency, but also important, is the human-readable presentation of the data to on the agency web site itself. Note W3C has a wealth of guidelines in many aspects of reaching people through the Web, including accessibility, internationalization, and access from mobile devices. W3C has an eGovenment activity, a gathering of people who have been discussing these issues. I would personally happy to help set this up on the right track. Tim Berners-Lee MIT Director, W3C w3.org Personal opinion not necessarily endorsed by MIT or W3C member companies. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/add-mapping-and-geographic-analysis-to-recovery.gov
 
 
 Add Mapping and Geographic Analysis to Recovery.gov
 
 Mapping and Geographic Analysis capabilities would enable Recovery.gov to provide a "full picture" of stimulus spending as envisioned by American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). 
 
 Maps supported by a Geographic Information System (GIS) would enable people to see, understand, evaluate, and give feedback on government decisions. They would show where ARRA spending is actually taking place and enable evaluation of intended outcomes of investments in local communities. This would require data about the location of investment spending as well as analysis capabilities that link stimulus funding to socio-economic and demographic data. 
 
 Recovery.gov should provide information and interpretive maps as well as underlying data and online tools for working with this data. The underlying GIS needs to be based on open standards (i.e., IT, Web and Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) standards) to enable citizens and government to utilize the broadest possible geospatial analytic and mapping capabilities to track and understand ARRA stimulus spending and outcomes. 
 
 Specifically , we recommend the following to enhance transparency: 
 
 1. Enable citizens to select and view maps of the data provided by government agencies -- This capability would be supported by an underlying Recovery.gov geographic information system, enabling the creation, storage, and maintenance of data, the database, and a library of maps showing basic ARRA fund distribution and status. These data would be directly supplied by government agencies. 
 
 2. Enable citizens to analyze performance spatially -- The site should support an easy-to-use capability for geographic data analysis and visualization. Recovery.gov should be able to integrate, analyze, and display location-related information from various sources including Internet geospatial Web services encompassing spending information and performance measurement data. 
 
 3. Enable citizens to create and share maps -- This capability would allow citizens to easily and dynamically create maps of any recovery data at any scale: national, regional, local, neighborhoods, etc. This capability would support posting, discovery, and viewing of citizen-created maps. These maps should also support various types of analysis (i.e., time, project, and performance measurement). The site would support creation of standard maps by anyone using map templates. This would allow the same geographic data to be reviewed over time. 
 
 4. Enable citizens to contribute comments -- This capability would enable citizens to submit comments, photos, and other information about projects (i.e., schedules, performance and benefits, problems, etc.) linked to the maps. 
 
 5. Enable citizens to summarize spending and other data by geographic areas -- Citizens should be able to summarize projects and expenditure data by zip codes, counties, congressional districts, states, or other user-defined geographic areas. 
 
 6. Enable citizens to download data and project information -- Recovery.gov should support the ability of citizens to download any dataset for specific geographic locations for use and analysis using their own analysis and mapping tools. 
 
 Other recommendations: 
 
 7. Enable Recovery.gov administrators to perform integration and quality assurance of data from multiple sources -- Recovery.gov will integrate an enormous amount of federal and state information. This information will need to be retrieved and brought together with systematic workflows that ensure quality as well as timely dissemination. We encourage the use of proven professional GIS technology and talent for the design and management of this system. 
 
 8. Require ARRA fund recipients to report specific geographic locations of all projects and expenditures -- The government should specify that all reporting agencies provide x,y location data to support the Recovery.gov data model/format and enable geography-based analysis and mapping. 
 
 9. Employ phased implementation approach -- We recommend a phased approach for implementation of GIS for Recovery.gov. This would involve a basic capability implemented in a few months with improvements after 6 months, and a full IT system deployment in 12-18 months. Early phases would involve integration and services whereas later phases would involve directly connecting with a distributed data and reporting system. 
 
 Some of the capabilities we recommend are already implemented on a number of state Web sites including 
 · State of Maryland <a class="external-link" href="http://www.mdimap.com/statestat/">StateStat</a> 
 · State of Oregon <a class="external-link" href="http://www.oregon.gov/recovery/StimulusReporting/index.shtml">Tracking the Dollars</a> 
 · State of Washington <a class="external-link" href="http://www.recovery.wa.gov/map/default.asp#">Stimulus Reporting Map</a> 
 
 
 Many of the other capabilities discussed here have been implemented in non-stimulus related applications by organizations across the country across the web. 
 
 
 Maps communicate. Spatial analysis reveals insights and understanding. GIS provides the platform for both. 
 
 To achieve transparency and accountability you must be able to understand the raw data and analyze it in context with other relevant data. Using GIS to spatially enable, manage and analyze the stimulus data allows us to go beyond massive tables of data and simple dots on maps to begin to measure performance and evaluate accountability. 
 
 To make ARRA funds relevant to citizens you need to keep it local. To spatially analyze investment activities and their impact in the community and show it on a map requires a robust GIS foundation. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/provide-enterprise-resource-planning-solutions-to-local-agencies
 
 
 Provide Enterprise Resource Planning Solutions to Local Agencies
 
 Provide Enterprise Resource Planning Solutions as suggested by HUD's Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&amp;R) report on <a class="external-link" href="http://www.huduser.org/publications/manufhsg/ircs.html">Industrializing the Residential Construction Site</a>. 
 
 Adopting the principles cited in HUD's Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&amp;R) report on <a class="external-link" href="http://www.huduser.org/publications/manufhsg/ircs.html"> Industrializing the Residential Construction Site </a> will empower local Community Development Corporations (CDCs) to quickly scale their operations with transparncy and accountability. A significant portion of the ARRA has been set aside for housing restoration and weatherization overwhelming local housing agencies. An open source, many-to-many, Web 2.0 knowledge base provides a data sharing relationship between the CDCs across the country. 
 An innovative solution, <a class="external-link" href="http://www.rebuildingmanagement.com">RebuildingManagement.com</a> originally developed to empower Long Term Recovery Organizations (LTROs) provide construction management services to displaced Hurricane Katrina homeowners is already in existence and ready to be deployed, . Nationwide deployment could be expedited through FEMA's Volunteer Agency Liason (VAL) force. 
 Aside from the obvious benefit of empowering local CDCs to meet the current need, long term distater recovery preparedness would simultaneously take place by pre-establishing LTROs for future emergency response. 
 Reporting to recovery.gov would be in real-time through RSS feeds. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/open-data-will-enable-democratized-analysis-and-accountability
 
 
 Open Data Will Enable Democratized Analysis and Accountability
 
 Focus on making the data available rather than the analysis. 
 In order to meet the goal of open data, the government should look to create data portals using technologies with wide market adoption, like XML-based web services. Web services such as SOAP and REST are self- documenting, quick, platform-independent, and currently allow for the most flexible access to the data in question. Third parties will make the most interesting use of the data. If a site like Recovery.org focuses on providing Open Data (timely, raw, and technologically neutral), it will leverage the passion and creativity of the populace to ensure real transparency and accountability. 
 
 As a software architecture specialist with 15 years experience building information systems for large customers including federal agencies such as the Department of Treasury, OMB, the US Navy, the CIA and OPIC, I can assure you that that the biggest challenge with this exercise will not be the format or operating system, but rather the volume of data and complexity of providing it in real time without straining the underlying infrastructure or creating privacy risks. The identification, provision and documentation of query tables (revealing whatever data the government intends to share) is the most basic first step. 
 Speaking at a technology event in Northern Virginia, newly appointed National CIO Vivek Kundra agreed that open data is the key, saying he was "deeply committed to opening up data to make it machine readable and easier for people to use/mix/mash." The real creativity will come from passionate citizens and organizations that will follow specific aspects of government regulation, and government spending. Similar to other public private partnerships, citizens and organizations will combine government data with outside sources (mash-ups) to produce useful tools that enhance our lives. A quick review of projects that have already been created from simple data dumps show just how much creativity exists. For example, <a href="http://www.OpenRegs.com">www.OpenRegs.com</a> is a website that taps into data underpinning the Federal Register and allows individuals and organizations to have a real-time look at the regulations that will affect them. 
 The infinite manifestations of data suggest that the worst thing the government could do is to try and anticipate all potential uses of the data by attempting to implement some grand master system. As Kundra also said, "technology changes so fast that by the time one standard comes along, there's another, and another, which is why government can't lock-in on one standard." There will be lag time between the release of the data and the availability of functional reports but it's nothing compared the delays inherent in a monolithic and over debated central system. Never was the KISS Principle more relevant. 
 Start simple, make the data available. I think we'll all be amazed at the results. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/add-national-online-mapping-to-recovery.gov
 
 
 Add National Online Mapping to Recovery.gov
 
 Add National Online Mapping to Recovery.gov 
 
 The advent of online data and mapping, provides Recovery.gov (and the federal government itself) with a unique opportunity to take advantage of platforms that are fast, efficient, cost effective and accessible. Just under a year ago, we launched a national data warehouse and mapping tool - <a class="external-link" href="http://www.policymap.com/">http://www.policymap.com/</a> - to provide users with online access to data, maps, tables and reports in a sophisticated yet easy to use web platform. Based on that experience, we have some thoughts and examples on what the Recovery.gov data and mapping application should provide to the public so that the result is not just a high-quality visual display of information, but an underlying searchable database of information for the government and the public. We've started to map stimulu transportation investments in most of the MidAtantic states on PolicyMap and hope to post a link to those later this week - in the meantime, check out some of our current work to see what we are talking about. 
 We would recommend that any platform used by Recovery.org to make stimulus investments transparent to the public possess, at a minimum, the following abilities: 
 1. Recovery.gov's database and mapping platform should be a national online platform that allows users to see stimulus investments in a standardized way throughout the county. States have begun to create their own websites showcasing their investments (which is great), but they appear in different formats. Some have pdfs listing their investments, others have begun to create state maps showing investment dollars, and still others offer a series of tables showing investments by county. As these sites proliferate, it will become difficult to compare information across important planning geographies (like MSAs) or by type of investment. Creating a uniform format and then providing states and grantees with the ability to load their investment data directly into a single national platform will allow stimulus dollars investments to be both transparent to the public and easy to analyze across geographies and investment types. 
 2. Once loaded, individual stimulus investments should appear as clickable points or shapes in a fast, online map. The mapping component needs to be able to display the exact locations of investments (points or shapes) so that people can zoom into a neighborhood or city or MSA and see EXACTLY where the money is going. The mapping needs to show not just where the money went, but for what purpose, how much and to whom. And the location on the map should provide a link back to the agency that received the funds. The public needs an online interactive map to see where investments have been made in their city, neighborhood, block or next door. For an example , this link shows investments at the neighborhood levels on an interactive map. You can zoom, pan, and search for locations and click on any point to read the details of the investments. 
 
<a title="Investments at a neighborhood level" href="http://www.policymap.com//map?o=80150&amp;ofilters=&amp;cx=-75.23246613559377&amp;cy=39.9779166915507&amp;cz=13&amp;iwx=39.9754&amp;iwy=-75.2365&amp;iwtype=identify&amp;iwtab=0&amp;cx=-75.23246613559377&amp;cy=39.9779166915507&amp;cz=13" target="_blank"> </a>
 
 3. The online mapping platform also needs to house information beyond just the locations of the stimulus investments. Federal dollars allocated to communities through the stimulus (or even other federal programs) should be a part of the platform and displayed thematically. Users should be able to simply mouse over any geography in the nation to see how much federal money they are getting. They should be able to overlay the stimulus site investments themselves to then see exactly where that money went within one integrated platform. For an example this link shows a map of Earned Income Tax Credit received by zip code in 2006. 
<a title="EITC by Zip Code" href="http://www.policymap.com//map?p=676150&amp;i=9586270&amp;btd=8&amp;period=2006&amp;ofilters=&amp;cx=-75.24831695636732&amp;cy=39.99192722412711&amp;cz=10&amp;iwx=39.97444464140758&amp;iwy=-75.26423195050432&amp;iwtype=identify&amp;iwtab=0&amp;cx=-75.24831695636732&amp;cy=39.99192722412711&amp;cz=10" target="_blank"> </a>
 
 4. When it comes to any conversation about investments in "place", the need for accurate, relevant and timely information about neighborhoods, cities, metro areas, and states is essential . The government is a repository of great public data; information about unemployment from BLS, tax return data from t he IRS, population characteristics from the Census and many other statistics are regularly collected and freely available. By incorporating this type of information in the online platform, users can see on a map not just where dollars directed at creating new jobs have gone, but see what the unemployment rate is in that area; users can see not just where homes are receiving weatherization assistance, but what the average age of a home is in that area, etc. This capacity gives the Recovery.gov site the potential to become not just a place for the presentation of data, but as an underlying tool for evaluating the impact of investments. This map shows an investment at a specific place layered over the vacancy rate. Combining context data layers is necessary to diagnose need and measure the effect of recovery dollars. 
 <a href="http://www.policymap.com//map?p=866356&amp;i=9631212&amp;btd=6&amp;o=80150&amp;period=2008q4&amp;ofilters=&amp;cx=-75.23246613559377&amp;cy=39.9779166915507&amp;cz=13&amp;iwx=39.9754&amp;iwy=-75.2365&amp;iwtype=identify&amp;iwtab=0&amp;cx=-75.23246613559377&amp;cy=39.9779166915507&amp;cz=13"> </a> 
 5. The platform must be searchable by the public. While Recovery.gov will need to display a series of pre-drawn tables and graphs that help to visually display where stimulus dollars are being allocated, the underlying online database platform must be searchable by the public . As states and grantees upload their investments information into the single online platform, users should be able to quickly download a list of investments meeting any number of criteria so a whole range of questions can be answered on the fly. From "How many energy investments have been made as a part of the stimulus in my city compared to another city?" "How have stimulus dollars been allocated by congressional district?" "What are the education investments being made in my neighborhood being used for?" Making information accessible and making information usable are two different things. The stimulus investment reporting must allow citizens to interact with the data in useful ways to answer questions about their communities. 
 
 Recovery.gov needs to pursue a solution that provides the public with detailed information about the use of stimulus dollars in a single national web platform that can generate easy-to-understand visuals like maps and tables - as well as sophisticated reports and analysis. 
 Adoption of an online platform also provides the federal government with a unique opportunity to take this all a step further and create - in one, single place - a repository of cross-silo, public data that can be used to: 
 1) provide the public with free access to public data; 
 2) evaluate how communities are changing over time as a result of stimulus investments; and 
 3) open up GIS data for local communities as they consider where future investments make sense. 
 Online data and mapping capacities give the government an opportunity to do this quickly and cost-effectively. The tools have already been developed and are ready to use in applications like PolicyMap.com. 
 Adoption of an online platform also provides the federal government with a unique opportunity to take this all a step further and create - in one, single place - a repository of cross-silo, public data that can be used to: 
 1) provide the public with free access to public data; 
 2) evaluate how communities are changing over time as a result of stimulus investments; and 
 3) open up GIS data for local communities as they consider where future investments make sense. 
 Online data and mapping capacities give the government an opportunity to do this quickly and cost-effectively. The tools have already been developed and are ready to use in applications like PolicyMap.com. 
 1) provide the public with free access to public data; 
 2) evaluate how communities are changing over time as a result of stimulus investments; and 
 3) open up GIS data for local communities as they consider where future investments make sense. 
 Online data and mapping capacities give the government an opportunity to do this quickly and cost-effectively. The tools have already been developed and are ready to use in applications like PolicyMap.com. 
 2) evaluate how communities are changing over time as a result of stimulus investments; and 
 3) open up GIS data for local communities as they consider where future investments make sense. 
 Online data and mapping capacities give the government an opportunity to do this quickly and cost-effectively. The tools have already been developed and are ready to use in applications like <a class="external-link" href="http://www.policymap.com">PolicyMap.com</a>. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/count-actual-jobs-created-or-retained-with-certiclear-job-counter
 
 
 Count ACTUAL jobs created or retained with CertiClear Job Counter
 
 CertiClear Job Counter [<a class="external-link" href="http://jobcounter.certiclear.com">http://jobcounter.certiclear.com]</a> is a "shovel ready," job counting application that is easy-to-use, easy-to-integrate into existing software and inexpensive. Agencies subscribe to the hosted service with a low-cost fee and user license and no cost need be passed on to the prime or sub-recipients. If requested, the Software may be installed behind firewalls. Agencies have real time views of information and seamless reporting capabilities. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) recommends continuing "efforts to identify methodologies that can be used to determine jobs created and retained from projects funded by the Recovery Act." [<a class="external-link" href="http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-09-580">http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-09-580</a>] Job Counter assures real people in real jobs are being counted accurately, preventing inaccurate "guesstimates" by recipients, or the use of "phantom" employees by fraudulent businesses. CertiClear Job Counter is an IT solution that should be required by Recovery.gov and adopted by agencies to: • provide consistent data collection • reduce fraud, waste and abuse • provide greater transparency as to actual jobs created and retained 
 CertiClear (<a class="external-link" href="http://www.certiclear.com/">http://www.certiclear.com/)</a> modified existing patent-pending technology to build Job Counter because government agencies have the same goals as taxpayers: to assure transparency and accountability and avoid fraud, waste and abuse of Recovery funds. 
 
 According to an April 23rd letter from Vice President Biden to Chairman Lieberman and Ranking Member Collins, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) will be issuing updated guidance in early May to address concerns of state and local officials. One of those areas: • A standard procedure for recipients to calculate jobs created Job Counter provides the "standard procedure" by gathering the data elements identified in the OMB guidance document of April 3, 2009 (<a class="external-link" href="http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/assets/memoranda_fy2009/m09-15.pdf">M-09-10</a>). Recipients can begin today meeting all the Reporting Requirements (<a class="external-link" href="http://www.smartpdf.com/register/2009/Mar/31/14639A.pdf">Section 1512 of the Recovery Act</a>) of the Interim FAR Rules, which have data reporting requirements retroactive to March 31, 2009. Job Counter collects all of the required data elements through simple uploads or easy online forms, limiting the administrative burden on recipients. Job Counter will help reduce fraud, waste and abuse because it provides for a level of assurance that recipients are hiring real people. The jobs data collected is auditable information to assure validity, but not of a confidential nature. At no time is private information reported or confidentiality breached. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/citability-org-making-govt-documentation-web-citable-to-a-paragraph-level
 
 
 Citability.org - Making Govt documentation web citable to a paragraph level
 
 
 
 WHAT 
 Asking Government to create advanced permalinks on a paragraph level to all public government documents and websites 
 
 HOW 
 It is pretty simple, actually. 
 A human readable URL that includes: 
 Domain Name / (path is necessary) /Document Name / DateTime stamp / and a heirarchical path to the paragraph 
 You can add a Path to document if needed to be unique but must be human readable. 
 The Hierarchical path should degrade nicely to point to larger and
larger portions of the document (like an entire paragraph or chapter.) 
 For example: 
 <a href="http://citability.pbworks.com/CopyofHR1586IH">Http://senate.gov/HR1586IH/03182009-2330/ HR1586S1b1Bii </a> 
 which would point to this clause 
 " $250,000 ($125,000 in the case of a married individual filing a separate return)." 
 in the March 18, 2009 version of the Bill HR 1586 
 Section 1, subsection b, chapter 1, paragraph B, clause ii 
 WHEN 
 We are recruiting different levels of government implementation one agency at a time. Recovery.gov's support on <a href="http://citability.org/">http://citability.org</a> will illustrate the demand and be a brave sign of leadership. 
 We are asking various propertary software vendors to implement this standard in their software products. 
 WHERE 
 <a href="http://citability.org/">Http://citability.org</a> - where we rally support for the concept 
 <a href="http://citability.pbwiki.com/">http://citability.pbworks.com</a>
- to help promote feedback on the internal standards we are
suggesting. And inspire participation in creating various implementations in different
software to backups and server failover settings. 
 
 
 
 WHY 
 To make Government more accessible to the average citizen. 
 To make it easy to create citations on blogs and sites like wikipedia that do not break over time. 
 To make issues easily searchable with a unique identifier. 
 So that we can aggregate pro and con responses on an issue. 
 Currently, many government documents are provided only in PDF
format, which makes it impossible to link to a specific page or
paragraph. 
 Recovery.gov could be a shining example to all governments worldwide! 
 Recovery.gov is done in Drupal. All websites that are done in CMS's
generate "pretty" urls. We would take advantage of that to create
these "beautiful" URLs. Our Drupal experts tells us the cost is
insignificant (&gt;50k) and it would help many nongovernmental websites
as well to become web citable because Drupal is Open Source and all
updates can be shared! 
 Visit <a href="http://citability.pbworks.com/Drupal">http://citability.pbworks.com/Drupal</a> to see our notes on a Drupal implementation for this concept. 
 We also have a QuickFix solution too that would be even LESS! <a class="external-link" href="http://citability.pbworks.com/QuickFix">http://citability.pbworks.com/QuickFix</a> 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-quality-and-data-standards-are-key-to-gaining-public-trust
 
 
 Data quality and data standards are key to gaining public trust
 
 Accurate and reliable reporting of agency's data sets is critical in gaining public trust of the government initiatives and results. Disperate data also require adherence to uniform data standards to enable data analysis and decision making. 
 
 Data quality and data standards are fundamental to decision making. Having hundreds (if not thousands) of data sources based on a variety of data standards make the analysis and decisions based on such "bad" data unsound. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/enhanced-analysis-and-visualization
 
 
 Enhanced Analysis and Visualization
 
 An idea for both the topic listed above and some of the earlier suggestions about enhanced visualizations and analytics, I'd like to submit an example of some of the options that should be pursued. We generally find that the approaches that often fail in data management and analysis are too many lists, spreadsheets, and columns of data. By using interactive visualizations, providing different levels of aggregation, and giving more in-depth analysis only where desired, you can turn volumes of data into usable information. We've taken the data at Recovery.gov (up to and including the Financial and Activity Reports added last week (dated 4/17/09) and created an interactive, dynamic dashboard of all of the data. In this way, you can do some top-level analysis, comparing agencies to each other and looking at the program as a whole, but also look at the individual agency over time. Take a look at it and let us know what you think. Link: <a class="external-link" href="http://www.microstrategy.com/recovery-act-data/">http://www.microstrategy.com/recovery-act-data/</a> 
 
 We believe the pages within RECOVERY.GOV should provide the end users with at least this level of interactivity and functionality, so that citizens can perform all the analysis they desire in an easy-to-understand and easy-to-use way. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/build-on-open-source
 
 
 Build on open source!
 
 Use open source or "community edition" tools for data warehousing, data analysis, reporting, visualization, e.g., Infobright ICE; Eclipse BIRT. 
 
 Save money. Avoid getting tied up with commercial vendors and licenses. Extend "community developed" concept of recovery.gov to the tools that support the site. Prove value of open source solutions to government requirements in general. Provide additional assurance to public that analyses are sound, i.e. others will be able to independently replicate results using the same software in a controlled environment. Create a model, templates, reference architecture for future government data aggregation and reporting requirements. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/central-knowledge-foundation-for-transparency-collaboration-immediacy
 
 
 Central Knowledge Foundation for Transparency, Collaboration, Immediacy 
 
 
 Constituents want transparency and information from the government, but knowledge is scattered across numerous systems , difficult to search , and quickly becomes out of-date. Agencies, can overcome these obstacles by implementing an effective <a href="http://www.rightnow.com/crm-suite-knowledge-management.php"> knowledge foundation </a>. A powerful, patented, self-learning knowledge foundation ensures that both constituents and agency staff have ready access to information that's accurate, up-to-date, and relevant across multiple channels --phone, web, email, or live chat. Knowledge management also helps agencies monitor constituent feedback, disseminate consistent information, and easily update content. 
 
 The <a href="http://www.rightnow.com/customers-us-epa-office-of-environmental-information.php"> Environmental Protection Agency </a>, <a href="http://www.rightnow.com/customers-centers-for-medicare-and-medicaid.php"> Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services </a>, and <a href="http://www.rightnow.com/files/whitepapers/RN-Gov-in-a-Time-of-Change-white-paper.pdf"> U.S. Army Training Support Center </a> are among the more than 155 agencies that currently use knowledge management to improve citizen's service experience, while reducing operating costs. 
 

 
 
 In an era where terms like efficiency, transparency, and collaboration are not just goals, but mandates under the Obama administration, having a powerful knowledge foundation and market-leading on demand customer relationship management (CRM) solution helps meet these objectives. Recovery.gov and U.S. Federal agencies can leverage a unified knowledge foundation to share, monitor, and collaborate on information, while providing transparent open communication between themselves and their constituents. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/transparency-and-openness-through-secure-real-time-enterprise-mashups-v2
 
 
 Transparency and Openness through Secure, Real-Time Enterprise Mashups V2
 
 Use Web 2.0 and Enterprise Mashups as a fast, agile
and cost effective way to provide real-time Recovery data to the public
via the Web. 
 Enterprise Mashups can help government agencies
publish their Recovery data directly from their existing systems
without *any* infrastructure changes. The data can be published as XML
or visualization widgets so consumers can view, analyze and share the
data right from within their Web browsers or social networking sites.
Without having to rewrite or rebuild existing systems and IT
infrastructure, agencies can publish Recovery data in hours or days,
not weeks months or years. This will translate to significantly reduced
IT costs and dramatically speed up time-to-market. 
 
 
 Data is becoming available at light speed as people
start to spend the Recovery funds. In many cases, we don't even know
where the information will materialize, but when it does, we will want
to tap into it to better understand how grantees are spending the
Recovery funds they have received. 
 
 The task of trying to collect, aggregate and report
on thousands of grantees across twenty seven agencies in real-time, is
a daunting task. Trying to use traditional integration technology and
infrastructure to accomplish this is just not feasible. That is the
main reason we must leverage new Web 2.0 and agile techniques and
technologies to accomplish this task. 
 If you'd like to see some real-time examples, take a look at the video and demos at: <a href="http://www.jackbe.com/recovery/"> http://www.jackbe.com/recovery/ </a> (More details below) 
 Let's use Web 2.0 to Transform Gov 2.0 
 Trying to develop a standard reporting format won't work. There
isn't enough time and certainly not enough resources to coordinate a
standard reporting format, infrastructure and visualization standard
across twenty seven agencies. The best way to analyze grantee
performance is to simply make the data available and let an enterprise
mashup server consume the data in realtime, mash it and present it to
the user. As recently as three years ago, this wouldn't have been
possible, but with the maturity and security of Enterprise Mashups over
the past few years, it is now easy to securely consume data from
virtually any source and combine it with other data sources in
real-time. 
 At JackBe, Presto, our Enterprise Mashup Platform provides the
infrastructure and tools that empower application developers and users
to create, customize and share Enterprise Mashups for faster decisions
and better business results. Presto provides a dynamic integration
approach to building enterprise mashup applications faster, leveraging
internal and external data while meeting the toughest enterprise
security and governance requirements. Presto provides Enterprise
Mashups delivered to the user in 3 clicks versus 3 months. 
 
 So exactly what will you see when you view the demos at: <a href="http://www.jackbe.com/recovery/"> http://www.jackbe.com/recovery/ </a> ? 
 In this one sample application, you will find the following three use cases: 
 
 1. A Mashup of all the individual Recovery Agencies' Financial and Activity Reports - This simple mashup provides interactive charts to quickly compare fund Obligations with Fund Outlays. (Total Development Time - 10 minutes ) 
 
 2. An interactive view of the HUD Recovery Data -
In addition to providing weekly Financial and Activity Reports, HUD
also provides a detailed listing of all grant recipients to date. 
(Kudos to HUD! This data is truly enlightening.) We mashed that data
with the summary data in the Financial and Activity Report to provide
an interactive environment to view grant recipients on a map by Agency
program or by zipcode. We took the demo one step further and let the
user instantly find recent articles and web postings on any of the
thousands of grant recipients by simply clicking on an icon on a map. (Total Development Time - 12 hours ) 
 
 3. TARP Fund Analysis - We didn't want to
overlook our friends at the Treasury Department, so we developed a
dashboard to review all the TARP grants and their recipients. We
access the XML file at <a href="http://www.financialstability.gov/impact/index.html"> http://www.financialstability.gov/impact/index.html </a>
in realtime and get the list of fund recipients and group the
recipients by state. The user can then select any of the recipients
and receive real-time stock performance information along with recent
stories about the recipients. It's important to note that this
dashboard will automatically update when the Treasury Department awards
more grants. (Total Development Time - 16 hours ) 
 
 Enterprise Mashups are only limited by the user's imagination By
providing real-time access to any data source, users can now focus on
rapid data analysis rather than lengthy and costly integration and
business intelligence development projects. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/stimulus-spending-transparency-analysis-outcomes-and-collaboration
 
 
 Stimulus Spending Transparency, analysis, outcomes and collaboration
 
 Stimulus Analytical Dashboard - Spending Data Transparency, Analytics, and Collaboration 
 The Stimulus Spending Analytics Dashboard enables operational and spending business intelligence to government agencies and tax payers to improve transparency, accountability, and collaboration. The dashboard solution enables agencies to optimize their supplier, grants, projects and spending performance by integrating disparate data from across the enterprise value chain and enabling decision makers to make more informed and actionable decisions. Utilization of pre-built dashboards and reports allows government agencies the ability to analyze fund allotments and spending details, review overall budget and financial performance, and improve timeliness and efficiency of payments. 
 
 The Binary Fountain dashboard provides powerful financial metrics, alerts, and reports enabling agencies and departments to gain insight into budget execution and stimulus spending analyses and to take data driven action. At the highest level, the solution addresses government requirements in terms of tracking stimulus spending numbers, compliance, data capture, data analysis, utilization reporting, and job growth outcomes. 
 - Integrated and Actionable Spending Insight The dashboard provides powerful financial metrics, alerts, and reports enabling agencies and departments to gain insight into budget execution and stimulus spending analyses and to take data driven action. At the highest level, the solution addresses government requirements in terms of tracking stimulus spending numbers, citizens collaboration, compliance, data capture, data analysis, utilization reporting, and job growth outcomes. 
 
 The Dashboard collaboration module allows a public domain user to drill down to a specific transaction and initiate a collaboration thread. A user can upload pictures and blog on a stimulus transaction, therefore creating increased transparency, accountability and public trust. 
 
 The Dashboard provides robust data analysis capabilities in order to track expenditures, utilization performance and jobs growth across an agency. The system calculates variances between actual spending versus targets (goals/indicators, project milestone dates and spending), and if needed, assigns performance ratings (e.g., red, yellow, green), and evaluate targets and/or actual performance for selected goals/indicators. 
 
 The dashboard solution leads to a more effective stimulus execution
process with increased reporting accuracy and accountability, along
with effectively tracking jobs growth outcomes. Agencies using the
Binary Fountain Dashboard will benefit from: 
 
• Comprehensive stimulus spending and procurement analysis 
• Increased insight and visibility into the payables and suppliers performance 
• Citizens Collaboration and accountability 
 The Recovery and Reinvestment Act is an extraordinary response to a crisis unlike any since the Great Depression. With much at stake, the Binary Fountain Dashboard provides unprecedented levels of transparency and accountability so that you will be able to know how, when, and where stimulus dollars are being spent. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/establish-a-national-terminology-as-a-shared-reference
 
 
 Establish A National Terminology As A Shared Reference
 
 Provide a National Terminology as a shared reference for all Federal Activities and for all those receiving Federal Funds. A full terminology would consist of a series of information structures built in layers. These semantic layers, from foundation to top, are: 
 Creation of Content by authors. Inventory of content stores (operational structured content as data, analytical structured content as data, semistructured content such as email, and unstructured content such as documents, spreadsheets, and presentation files) Term extraction from content, tied to source and author metadata Term definition (s) from authors, groups, organizations, standards-bodies, national and global dictionaries, etc. Concept maps as Directed Labeled Graphs ( DLG ) with underlying triples , as concepts of operation, conceptual data models, or OV2 (Expandible to logical data models in ERD or ORM format and physical data models in DDL , XML/XSD , RDF/RDFS , or OWL . Further expandible to ontologies and knowledge-bases using RDF/RDFS or OWL (with an Enterprise Architecture metamodel being anontology and the EA content being a knowledge-base). Further elaborating the ontology or EA would then lead to the ability to build an axiology showing subject-activity sequences, and thus subject-activity dependencies, and thus subject-activity value-streams, value-chains, and priorities . (All of DODAF fits here, and some of OMB FEA) Taxonomies to categorize broader and narrower meanings and their terms (and to serve as master-metadata and master-data for organization-wide lookup tables) (Some of OMB FEA fits here) Thesaurus for identifying preferred and alternate terms within a domain, including acronyms, aliases, abbreviations, and alternate spellings, all as a means to translate jargon across domains and translate across natural languages . Refinement of terminology by cycling from item 1 back to item 7. 
 
 A shared and governed terminology would dramatically reduce the complexity and cost of accurately interfacing cultures, organizations, workforces, processes, data, and technologies. If built from the top of a domain, it is less costly and more effective than building from the bottom up. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-format
 
 
 Data Format
 
 Whatever format is used for the data, it should be highly exportable. Doing this will enable the public to massage/analyze the data any way that they choose. Otherwise, it is going to be difficult to come up with a format that pleases everyone 
 
 It informs the general public and also provides access to the data for anyone that wants deeper analysis. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/8th-grade-basal-reading-level-of-data-aggregation-in-visual-form
 
 
 8th Grade Basal Reading Level of Data Aggregation in Visual form
 
 To meet the fundamental goals of a publicly accessible and understandable forum for Recovery.gov as a place where the public can monitor the expenditure and use of recovery funds data must be presented in a format keyed to the average reading level (ca. 8th), and further aggregated in an overtly simplistic way through a declining funds remaining bar, with a national and state based navigation interface. 
 
 The vast majority of the public relies on news agency data aggregation because 20 (small local level) page excel printouts are too complex. On a state level, the budget may exceed 400 pages, and on a federal level the budget easily exceeds 20,000 line-item pages of payees. 
 to be "transparent and publicly accessible" the page needs a simple interface, on the main page, with a declining fund bar (perhaps "cute") and a image hotmap allowing the public to key into local areas of interest to see how funds are being distributed in relevant agencies that affect their life. 
 What currently exists is woefully inadequate, nontransparent, obfuscated, and currently disappointing. 
 This should not require billions to implement, and should be no more complicated than the websites that presidential candidates would display to convey information and financial information/fundraising progress. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/full-collaboration-transparency-and-reporting
 
 
 Full collaboration, transparency and reporting
 
 Provide a powerful, turn-key system that will provide two primary functions. First, provide Recovery.gov the tools necessary to manage, administer and track the funding allocations. A tool that would allow collaboration across the agencies that are involved in the management of the stimulus funding as well as workflow, policy and procedural control and visibility. This would ensure all the relevant data is in one place. This tool could and should be used by every organization receiving stimulus funding. 
 
 Second, provide a "Faceplate" that would allow anyone to point and click to track who received funding, what the entity is (financial, government agency, private industry etc.), where they are located, when they received the funding, and why. The public could view not only where the funding went, but what policies and procedures were followed to grant the funding. The why is especially important. It's from the why that we can determine if the funding was well spent. What were the goals and requirements of the funding and are they being met? 
 
 Teamcenter by Siemens, implemented and hosted by Computer Sciences Corporation is just such a tool. 
 
 
 First, having the on line collaboration ability that crosses departmental boundaries is vital in getting the funds allocated as quickly as possible. This also allows the data to be in one place which in turn allows analysis and reporting to take place equally as effectively. It also allows quick, effective auditing to be accomplished as all the information is centrally located. And most importantly, it provides the transparency that is to be the cornerstone of the stimulus effort. The public could have ready, point and click access to not only what funding was allocated to who and where, but what policy or procedure was followed to get it there, and if the project is meeting its intended goals. This would remove any doubt as to the effectiveness of the effort in all offerings. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/the-crux-of-the-issue-trusted-information
 
 
 The Crux Of The Issue: Trusted Information 
 
 The Obama pledge for transparency along with the recent OMB Recovery Act Guidance has created something of a burning fuse for the administration, presenting a great risk both to the credibility of The White House, and the success of the Recovery Act investment. While current studies show general support across the nation for the stimulus effort, there lingers a degree of skepticism amongst the Congress, the citizenry and the media in the ability of the government to administer the investments fairly, effectively, and without widespread corruption and fraud. 
 
 Indeed, Obama has made transparency and accountability a centerpiece of his presidency. From his Inaugural address: 
 
 "Those of us who manage the public's dollars will be held to account--to spend wisely, reform bad habits, and do our business in the light of day--because only then can we restore the vital trust between a people and their government." 
 
 More fundamentally, however, the Recovery Act is intended to go far beyond serving as a mechanism for stimulating the economy. It inherently calls for a transformation in the relationship between the government and its citizenry, long after the last stimulus dollar has been spent. 
 
 So here's the burning fuse: While the current body of thought has focused primarily on the methods for collecting reports, the real crux of the matter lies in how the OMB and Recovery.gov, in concert with funding agencies from across the ecosystem, can ensure that the information presented in the reports is accurate, complete, and consistent; and in the degree to which the public is able to drill into the information across agencies and to a level of detail sufficient to convince them that the information can be trusted. 
 
 The credibility of Recovery.gov, and indeed the credibility of the administration, lies chiefly in the trust and confidence across the government, citizenry and media that there exists straightforward access to relevant spending and impact information, and that this information is both accurate and complete - even though the sources of this information lie across a complex ecosystem of heterogeneous federal, state and local agencies, as well as private interests -- each with existing investments in program management, business processes and underlying infrastructure and data models. 
 
 Imagine this: On October 10 citizens log on to Recovery.gov, and being to poke around. They see that Recovery.gov is reporting the results of an investment program that has been put in place across several states -- X number of jobs produced, with Y $$'s of investment. These numbers are the aggregates from several states. Yet, when the individual drills into those states, or goes directly to the individual state websites, the numbers don't add up. Result: Loss of credibility in the results of the Recovery Act investments. 
 
 Ultimately, the PERCEIVED success of the Recovery Act is not so much about managing funds as it is about the enormous challenge of managing information - ensuring the information is reliable and readily accessible in real time. 
 Our clients tell us that while they need to move in the short term to standup a capability to meet the reporting mandates, longer term they need to develop a new level of agility to respond to the evolving demands of the new stimulus management environment. At the highest level, they need the tools to streamline and more efficiently manage the proposal and grant processes, and engage in strategic decision making. They need both broad and detailed views of stimulus-related information and processes, made possible through robust dashboards and scorecards. They need solid transactional and operational reports, for both internal and citizen centric reporting. To track how they are spending their funds and the progress of the agencies they support, they need sophisticated project and performance management capabilities. Above all, they need tools to ensure that they can trust the information they are using to optimize their investment, and to share across the ecosystem. 
 
 The second set of guidance from OMB points to the development of a central facility for collecting reports from funding agencies. In developing this facility and providing further guidance to the funding agencies OMB should strive 1) to create a standardized data model that 2) allows the bi-directional flow of information; and 2) to ensure data quality, accuracy and completeness; and 3) consistent reporting. 
 
 At a more detailed level, based on our ongoing conversations with Federal and State &amp; Local funding agencies the OMB should keep the following architectural guidelines in mind - both as it provides further guidance and in developing its own capabilities: 
 
 In conversations across the ecosystem, our clients tell us that while they need to move in the short term to standup a capability to meet the reporting mandates, longer term they need to develop a new level of agility to respond to the evolving demands of the new stimulus management environment. At the highest level, they need the tools to streamline and more efficiently manage the proposal and grant processes, and engage in strategic decision making. They need both broad and detailed views of stimulus-related information and processes, made possible through robust dashboards and scorecards. They need solid transactional and operational reports, for both internal and citizen centric reporting. To track how they are spending their funds and the progress of the agencies they support, they need sophisticated project and performance management capabilities. Above all, they need tools to ensure that they can trust the information they are using to optimize their investment, and to share across the ecosystem. 
 
 The second set of guidance from OMB points to the development of a central facility for collecting reports from funding agencies. In developing this facility and providing further guidance to the funding agencies OMB and Recovery.gov should strive 1) to create a standardized data model that 2) allows the bi-directional flow of information; and 2) to ensure data quality, accuracy and completeness; and 3) consistent reporting. 
 
 
 
 Trusted Information is the key to the success of Recovery.gov. If the information is easily accessible, AND is accurate, complete and consistent, faith in the Recovery Act is maintained. If it is innacurate, or hard to access -- credibility is lost, and the publis loses faith in the Recovery Act Itself. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-saas-for-project-performance-status
 
 
 Use SaaS for Project Performance Status
 
 Use Software as a a Service (SaaS) based project portfolio management tools to prioritize, status, report, and execute stimulus projects. 
 
 SaaS PPM can be implemented in days and provides effecient means to prioritze multiple projct requests, execiute projects, and report on progress and status inlcuding spend and realization of benefits. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/making-stimulus-spending-data-accessible-to-the-public
 
 
 Making stimulus spending data accessible to the public
 
 Under the provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009, Federal agencies as well as recipients of stimulus money are required to report certain spending and performance data for aggregation on Recovery.gov. This mandate provides an unprecedented level of transparency and accountability over investment of stimulus dollars. It also provides agencies with a complex new reporting requirement that must be rolled out fairly quickly. 
 To meet the accountability and transparency objectives of the Act, agencies and prime recipients must have the ability to provide ARRA-mandated reports meeting the following criteria: 
 Provided in a timely and accurate manner Accessible to the public and searchable (discoverable) using readily available search technologies Published in a structured format (as opposed to unstructured text formats) to facilitate value-added data aggregation and analysis 
 The easiest way to accomplish this with the least amount of risk is to implement a distributed reporting architecture leveraging widely available Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) - based web standards and technologies such as extensible markup language (XML), Really Simple Syndication (RSS), Atom, extensible hypertext markup language (XHTML), JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), Comma-separated values (CSV), keyhole markup language for geo-encoding (KML), representational state transfer (REST), Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP), and other modern data access standards. In this scenario, agencies and prime recipients would perform the following actions: 
 Extract ARRA-mandated data elements from relevant backoffice systems (e.g., financial management systems, grants management systems, etc.) using an appropriate data access application programming interface (API) (e.g., JDBC) Transform those data elements into ARRA - mandated reports such as funding notification reports, periodic financial reports, and award-level reporting Publish ARRA - mandated reports to the Web as "data feeds" using one or more of the aforementioned formats as appropriate. Once published to the web, these feeds could then be combined in value-added ways using "mash-ups," a popular state-of-the-art web development technique. They can also be harvested and aggregated by Recovery.gov. Provide a "sitemap" using the popular Sitemaps standard (<a href="http://www.sitemaps.org/">http://www.sitemaps.org/</a>) to make it easy for subscribers to find all of your feeds 
 Once these remote data feeds have been published, the Recovery.gov website can aggregate them on an ongoing basis using readily available "spider" or web crawler technology. The "spider" essentially visits each data feed on a regular, ongoing basis, checks it for changes, parses it, and posts it to a local index or data mart. This index is then used by Recovery.gov as a data store to allow the public to search and perform analytics on stimulus spending. 
 There are numerous readily available technologies, both commercial and open source, to implement the features described in this article. For example, Unisys has developed a Recovery Act reporting solution that can extract ARRA data elements from their host systems, aggregate them into ARRA-mandated reports, and publish those reports to the web as RSS / Atom feeds, KML feeds for geospatial visualization, CSV for spreadsheet integration, and custom XML vocabularies for integration with other applications. The Unisys Recovery Act reporting solution was developed using various open source enterprise Java technologies, and will integrate with most Government web hosting environments. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/collaboration
 
 
 Collaboration
 
 Use freely available internatinoal information standards (such as XBRL) to streamline IT infrastructures, improve data quality, enhance analytical and visualization capabilities and process agility while reducing overall system costs. 
 Here are 3 examples of where this is occuring now: 
 - Australia SBR Project - multiple agencies collaborating to reduce compliance costs 25%: <a href="http://www.sbr.gov.au/content/default.htm">http://www.sbr.gov.au/content/default.htm</a> 
 - Dutch Taxonomy Project - multiple agencies collaborating to reduce compliance costs 25%: <a href="http://www.xbrl-ntp.nl/english">http://www.xbrl-ntp.nl/english</a> 
 - Nevada SBR Project - state level agencies collaborating to reduce compliance costs: <a href="http://www.govtech.com/gt/653427">http://www.govtech.com/gt/653427</a> 
 There are many other examples available at either <a href="http://www.xbrl.org">http://www.xbrl.org</a> or <a href="http://www.xbrl.us">http://www.xbrl.us</a> 
 
 Proven track record in reducing compliance costs (for governmental agencies and regulated constituents) while enhancing analytical capabilities and process agility. 
 The XBRL standard is useful for the ENTIRE supply chain, not only external reporting/compliance but also within ledger and sub-ledger (transaction) systems. The application within agency reporting structures would allow for disparate agencies to more cost effectively share, consolidate, manage and report on information relevant to decision making. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-the-tools-you-know-and-the-software-you-trust
 
 
 Use the tools you know and the software you trust
 
 Although there have been many posts with great ideas trying to define transparency and ideas on how to display and present data on recovery.gov, there needs to be more discussion on the significant problem in addressing the quality, source, and cost of the data that will be collected and accessible. 
 
 ARRA is pushing an unprecedented amount of funding, in an exceptionally accelerated pace into our government bureaucracies - federal, state, local, and educational institutions are facing an enormous challenge in: 
 
 1. Identifying the funding source (and requirements) 
 2. Processing funds (either as a grantee, grantor, or both) 
 3. Managing funded and proposed projects from start to finish 
 4. Creating all mandatory program and funding reports 
 5. Defining 'transparency' and what data to collect 
 
 This isn't really anything new. Governments at all levels have been processing different funding streams for a long time, and will be after ARRA dollars are spent. What is unique at this moment in time is the scale of and requirement for creating a single view into all related 'stimulus' monies. These challenges are magnified by the lack of definition of 'transparency' combined with growing citizen's expectations. 
 
 For example, a report from the State of Minnesota is the best summary of the 'find the money' challenge I have seen to date - <a href="http://www.mmb.state.mn.us/doc/citizen/summary.pdf"> http://www.mmb.state.mn.us/doc/citizen/summary.pdf </a> - hundreds of funding sources to find and track - interesting to note the summary of the Federal legislation is coming from a State, and unfortunately every State is spending energy doing the same analysis. 
 
 The dialog within these pages itself clearly exemplifies the diversity of perception in what defines 'transparency'. 
 
 So why is the quality and sourcing of data so important? 
 
 Although ARRA provides much needed funding for Federal, State and Education related programs it does not specifically provide assistance to help the government agencies in charge of managing and reporting on the use of those funds with the tools to help them with this process and to put those dollars to work quickly. 
 
 While the need to report on how federal and state funds are being applied is not new, the challenge to manage the multiple reporting and transparency requirements, where the entities need to report back, in what format, and how do they ultimately make this information open to the public, is affecting all levels of government today. 
 
 If recovery.gov is going to be successful in the promise of delivering unprecedented access to information - the promise that data will be gathered and organized in ways never seen before - the participants of ARRA funding need help in collecting quality data. They need tools to help them so that 'finding the money source' and 'collecting the data' are not the primary job. Tools that help them effectively move funds through the system and get resources where they are needed. 
 
 The answer lies in taking advantage of platform solutions that are based on easy to use tools and technologies that these organizations use (and likely own already) today, so government agencies can quickly mobilize and put stimulus dollars to work, with confidence they will be able to comply with evolving reporting requirements and ultimately exceed citizen's expectations for transparency. 
 
 We have spent a lot of time talking to our customers and they have asked us for "easy to use" tools that can help them capture data at all points in a process, track funded programs with different objectives, monitor progress with varying timelines, and provide intuitive views of the data for different audiences. We have been asked for a answer that can support known key performance indicators and government-backed performance metrics, automated workflow, and comprehensive analysis across consolidated data sources - but flexible enough to quickly accommodate future requirements. 
 
 To that end, Microsoft made a commitment to help customers by creating a solution that can meet these objectives. We worked closely with numerous partners and customers across the country and in the spirit of economic recovery created a set of solution accelerators that, with limited resource and effort, are available for customers and partners to implement. 
 
 The Microsoft Stimulus360 solution is now available as templates to download directly, for partners to implement, or hosting providers to deliver. It will help government organizations and educational institutions to quickly mobilize and track federal funding sources, requirements, and grant submission processes. It manages incoming resources, facilitates downstream funding requests, tracks funded projects, and tracks allocated resources. The solution provides an effective means of compiling results, satisfying reporting requirements, and publishing content to citizens. 
 
 Governments can use the Microsoft Stimulus360 solution immediately to: 
 · Manage and track all ARRA fund sources 
 · Manage and track all ARRA funded projects within your jurisdiction 
 · Integrate with your existing financial, grant, and project systems to provide a central ARRA repository 
 · Produce all mandatory ARRA reports and progress 
 · Provide business intelligence to visual data, processes, and goals with scorecards and geospatial analysis 
 · Provide a central source for data, documents, and reports 
 · Search documents and data internally and ARRA sites externally 
 · Provide full auditing of all data out of the box to track any changes to the data 
 
 Federal, State and local governments that deploy the Microsoft Stimulus360 solution benefit from: 
 · Automatic capture of actions and events to facilitate quick, informed decisions and to improve transparency. 
 · Integration with familiar applications including Microsoft Internet Explorer, Office Outlook and Microsoft Office Excel, to reduce the learning curve. 
 · Geospatial features that link data and mapping capabilities, providing the visual component that allows our elected officials, and the public to see the impact that Recovery efforts are having at the national, state, and smallest of local level. 
 
 Many agencies that currently use Microsoft applications will find that most of the pieces needed may already be in use, which could lead to lower training cost and quicker adoption rates. Microsoft Stimulus360 can be deployed on-premise, or government customers can choose to take advantage of hosted options to meet fluctuating demand and to help minimize deployment costs. The Stimulus360 solution does not require extensive consultant engagement or services contracts to deploy. Federal, State and local governments and their tax-paying citizens are counting on a rapid and positive impact of the federal stimulus program. The right technology can help ARRA participants manage the funds appropriately to create needed jobs and to contribute to the national economic recovery - and the effort will provide useful solutions beyond the current ARRA cycle. This will drive results, and in turn will dramatically improve the quality of information available on recovery.gov. This is not a magic bullet, not the right answer for everyone, and still requires hard work. 
 
 Technology does not solve problems, people do. 
 
 Use the tools you know and the software you trust. 
 
 For more information see: <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/government/stimulus360/"> http://www.microsoft.com/government/stimulus360/ </a> 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/nasa-sponsored-technology-for-recovery-act-tracking
 
 
 NASA-Sponsored Technology for Recovery Act Tracking
 
 TeamLeader (tm) , a NASA-sponsored technology ideal for Recovery Act tracking -- <a href="http://recovery.teamhost.com" target="_blank"> http://recovery.teamhost.com </a> -- is a management accountability and reporting system for overseeing the progress and performance of government projects. It can be implemented immediately from the GSA schedule. Here is a case study of how NASA uses TeamLeader (tm) to manage one of its compex Lunar projects: <a href="http://nasateam.com/uploads/casestudy.pdf" target="_blank"> http://nasateam.com/uploads/casestudy.pdf </a> 
 
 We want recovery now: so we want more than concepts later, we want capability now. As agencies scramble to adapt spreadsheet and related systems to jury-rig a disparate variety of stove-piped Recovery Act tracking systems, in fact, a Web 2.0-based system ideal for exactly this purpose has been validated at NASA. Call it "the right time and the right place." NASA-sponsored technology may set the pace for how agencies can track Recovery Act money from spending to real results. Here is the background ... In 2008, I was asked to address a seminar for NASA managers on using Web 2.0 for business improvement. Cary Landis, seminar leader and CEO of Virtual Global Technologies, knew of my work in the corporate world, plus service at GAO and nearly a decade in the Executive Office of the President. (I served at OMB and later as team leader of the Science &amp; Technology Team for the National Performance Review Task Force. So I know something about real-world government spending, accountability and results.) Fortunately, our audience at the Glenn Research Center included managers who really "get it." The lunar project staff forged ahead with piloting and proving the TeamLeader (tm) performance management and reporting system. Based on Virtual Global's technology proven by organizations such as The Pampered Chef corporation and endorsed by the intelligence division of the Seattle Police Department, NASA's Web implementation proved so successful that Mark Hyatt from NASA's Advanced Capabilities Office was asked to present it in detail at the agency's annual "Management 2.0" conference this past Febuary 2009 in Florida. ( <a href="http://nasateam.com/uploads/casestudy.pdf">http://nasateam.com/uploads/casestudy.pdf</a> ) The NASA configuration of TeamLeader (tm) can be rapidly customized for particular agencies and programs (the system's "toolset" cuts implementation time and costs by more than a quarter). Results can feed real-time into successive roll-ups at department and OMB levels. As a fully secure Web 2.0 system (it is the only system in the world that includes a breakthrough NIST patent for Role-Based Access Control), TeamLeader (tm) scales across all levels of government; can connect to pre-existing budget and management systems; can plug-into Google Maps and other capabilities; gives managers real project visibility; automatically "roles up" reports for review; and where appropriate, can help to automate Web publishing. John Hale - MINDWEST Strategies 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recovery-tool-on-every-americans-desktop-and-mobile-phone-using-pushbi
 
 
 Recovery Tool on every Americans desktop and mobile phone using PushBI
 
 If we are not careful, we can make tracking the Recovery more complicated and confusing than it needs to be. EVERY AMERICAN SHOULD BE ABLE TO TRACK THE PERFORMANCE OF THE RECOVERY. Our idea is to place a simple tracking tool on the desktop and mobile phone of every American in the United States. PushBI is being used to help businesses track their performance today and will help the government track their performance and provide total transparency to the American people. 
 
 Our government wants to provide the highest transparency possible to every American. We believe this can only be achieved with a tool that is simple enough for any American to use in a medium that is available to as many Americans as possible. Any American who has access to the internet, a computer or mobile phone can use the PushBI Recovery Tool. 
 Providing the PushBI Recovery Tool on the desktops and mobile phones of every American will provide the kind of transparency the government wants to provide and will be easily consumable by the American people. Every American can be involved helping our great nation in this time of need. 
 To get the idea for this tool go to <a href="http://pushbi.com/">http://pushbi.com/</a> and download the tool from the home page. It takes just a couple of minutes. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/show-correlation-between-appropriations-and-results
 
 
 Show correlation between appropriations and results
 
 
 
 Transparency is a good thing and the efforts of everyone
trying to provide better visibility into the appropriation, obligation, and
spending of ARRA stimulus funds across the country should be applauded. But this gives us only half of the picture. What
is missing is a good way to show the correlation between the funding that was
spent and the results that were both expected and actually achieved. For
example, if money appropriated to HUD is supposed to reduce foreclosures, or
money for the Department of Transportation is supposed to decrease the
unemployment rate… then as taxpayers we have the right to see whether or not
that's working. 
 A major requirement of getting an ARRA appropriation and
then spending that money should be to establish reasonable and measurable
expectations. For example, if reducing foreclosures is the goal, any organization
receiving funding for that purpose should have to specify how much of a
reduction is expected over specific periods of time and in what geographic
areas. Then reporting standards must be established to collect the data that
will enable everyone to see whether or not the goals are being met. Throughout
this process, it is essential to accurately correlate spending and expectations
with results in order to determine if goals achieved were actually due to the
ARRA funding or just a coincidence. 
 
 
 
 Correlating results with funding will enable all taxpayers
to clearly see if the way the government is spending our money is working or
not. It will help the government make better decisions about how to make future
appropriations. Throughout this stimulus cycle we have the opportunity to see
what's not working and to try something different that is working. If appropriating funding for homeowners at
risk for foreclosure in high unemployment areas doesn't change the foreclosure
rate, then that type of funding shouldn't be appropriated. 
 Today we're still using stimulus models based on what worked
or didn't work during the Great Depression. 
70 year old data is not a good model for today's fast-paced
economy. By using modern technology to
report up-to-date facts to all of us and our elected representatives, we'll be
providing a good base for making stimulus decisions in the near-term and we'll
be developing a model that can be used for the next recession be it 5 years
from now or 50. It will also give voters a much better way of making
politicians and the government accountable for their promises. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/implement-a-trusted-information-strategy
 
 
 Implement a "Trusted Information" Strategy
 
 Design a system that is based on a standadized data model and utilize data normalization tools and processes to ensure that received information can be trusted as accurate and authentic. When receiving data from so many different sources it is imperative that the data be accurate so that the business and performance management analytics that are expected to be produced can be relied upon for accuracy. In order to reach this objective it is essential that a standard data model, including data fields in an XML schema, be parsed to ensure that the data formats are consistent and reliable. This requires not only that a specification be published but that tools to detect data that is not compliant with the data model specifications can be automatically corrected to meet the needs of the solution. This goal can be realized by adopting the appropriate strategy, definition, governance, roadmaps and information infrastructure. Models for this concept can be found at <a class="external-link" href="http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/information-agenda/">"The New Information Agenda"</a> . Establishing this foundation will enable not only performance evaluations but will permit the assessment of the collected information for other purposes such as fraud and abuse detection and risk mitigation. 
 
 The foundation of a complex system that collects and aggregates massive amounts of data with the intention of using that source data for very significant performance evaluations such as those called for in the reconciliation aspect of the ARRA needs to ensure that the data received is consistent and reliable. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/xml-web-services
 
 
 XML Web Services
 
 Make recovery data available as a web service via SOAP XML. 
 
 This will allow web developers to develop their own tools and pages to display information in a data pull (not push) methodology. In fact, much much more government data should be available in this format. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/single-reporting-system-for-grants-using-bpm
 
 
 Single Reporting system for grants using BPM
 
 The federal agencies should provide one single system that will track grants from the moment they are awarded and allow the grantees and sub grantees to be able to report back through that tracking system. 
 While this concept may seem impossible to traditional grants management IT folks, the technology is readily available and can be implemented very quickly. The technology is Business Process Management (BPM). The leading BPM vendor, Appian Corporation, can implement such as system in a matter of months with effective security to ensure data integrity. Appian does that for the USArmy now with 2 million users. 
 
 
 The idea is important because: 1) six months from now when grantees are expected to report back on performance and ROI on the investment from these grants, there is going to be very wide discrepancy between what the federal agencies report and what the grantees report. This is due to the lack of standardization and mechanisms available to the grantees and the sub grantees; 2) there is currently no single reporting system available that all grantees and sub grantees can afford; 3) the federal agencies would save millions of dollars in reconciliation expenses 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/program-management-reporting-software-provides-full-transparency
 
 
 Program management &amp; reporting software provides full transparency
 
 CapEx Manager is a market tested solutions that will allow the Federal Government to reach its goal of full transparency and accountability as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is carried out across the county. The software will allow each participating organization to effectively manage day-to-day operations throughout their entire Program Lifecycle. Data flows seamlessly between each phase of the program, from bid preparation, to procurement, through project management, to project closeout. The system enables issues to be managed and resolved as they surface, information to be viewed, and costs and schedules to be controlled. Through the course of each project, the public entity responsible for the project, the federal government, and citizens will have real-time views on how their project is progressing, where issues exist and what is being done to make certain the project is being delivered in an appropriate manner. 
 
 This type of solution is extremely important. As identified by the act itself, there is a requirement for full transparency of all expenditures of dollars that fund this initiative. Taxpayers be able to know how, when, and where there tax dollars are being spent. Those spending the dollars should also have the tools to adequately manage the projects being funded. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/make-collecting-recovery-data-agile-using-semantic-web-technology
 
 
 Make collecting recovery data agile using semantic web technology
 
 
 The goal of recovery.org is to create transparency around how stimulus dollars are being allocated and spent. The challenge to tracking, correlating, and analyzing relevant information is that this data is extremely heterogeneous. Some is captured in the spreadsheets that agencies post to recovery.gov. But, other important sources of data originate from many distinct agencies and cover a wide range of projects with differing metrics, definitions of terms, andcharacteristics. Data residing in a myriad of systems and formats make it hard for the average citizen to access it and interpret it. In short, complexity inhibits transparency. Recovery.gov should adopt semantic web technologies as key enablers for promoting an agile, transparent data ecosystem in which federal agencies and other recipients of stimulus monies can share spending and performance data in a way that is truly transparent, readily available, and useful to anyone who wants to view, consume, or analyze the information. 
 
 Semantic technologies were created to solve the problem of how to link and query heterogeneous data from files, databases, documents, and web pages. The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) publishes a set of open technology standards, known as Semantic Web technologies, for integrating disparate data in a way that is well-defined, traceable, easy to consume, and supported by a variety of tools. 
 
 Semantic Web technologies ease data collection by acting as a virtual integration layer. That is, agencies can and should continue to collect data in traditional databases, XML files, or Excel spreadsheets. Semantic Web technologies weave this information into a unified fabric so that it can be examined, analyzed, and understood by other citizens, legislators, oversight bodies, etc. 
 
 Application of semantic web technologies contributes to a "Web of Linked Data" that allows anyone with a Web browser to 'surf' a trail of data back to its source and better understand the information being published under ARRA's requirements. 
 
 
 
 ARRA requirements represent a fundamental step forward for transparency, openness, and accountability on the part of government agencies and those benefiting from stimulus funds. But, accessing spreadsheets that agencies use to summarize activity to recovery.gov is only part of the story. To detect waste, fraud, and abuse we need more encompassing data forensics. That is, information wants to be linked and correlated with heterogeneous information and data from many other sources. Making it easy to expose the semantics and structure of varied sources in a standard way is critical to investigative success. If the data is stored and presented in a way that is difficult to access or confusing, the interpretation will be that the government's intention is to be something less than transparent. Making the data available in a way that is easy to consume and use will foster and image of true transparency on the part of the government. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/make-public-data-available-to-the-public-with-web-services
 
 
 Make public data available to the public with web services
 
 Mandate that local, state and federal government agencies make their public information available in open format like XML, on rest or soap based web services. This would then empower both public and private developers and analysts to utilize this information in 'data fusion" centers where it can be visualized and analyzed with both spatial (GIS based tools) and non-spatial tools. A great example of this kind of "data fusion" or mashup application is Philadelphia's Neighborhood Information Center at <a href="http://www.cml.upenn.edu/nis/nBase.htm">http://www.cml.upenn.edu/nis/nBase.htm</a> 
 
 This is important at it exposes silo'd data kept in disparate systems and leverages available technology to turn vast amounts of data into usable information for both citizens and governments alike. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-mantates-should-focus-on-the-whats-not-hows
 
 
 Data Mantates should focus on the WHAT's not HOW's
 
 Had this idea while resopnding to another idea; 
 
 There's a growing tendency for people to focus on phrases or ideas like make data available via "SOAP, or XML formats". 
 What should really happen is less a focus on _HOW_ data is delivered
(although that's an important followup) and for politicians and data savvy people
to talk about _WHAT_ is delivered. 
 e.g. I want to see a spec that says "Every gov. entity at a
department accounting level needs to show year-to-year operating costs,
total headcount, and break out spending for services (internal vs.
eternal) and operation costs (energy, fleet and fuel)" 
 Something like that with probably more detail like "calculate these
numbers with such-and-such methodology and you must also report the
Standard Deviation". 
 The "HOW" should be a small footnote, e.g. 
 "This data should be made available 16+ hrs a day including the hours of 9-5, 7 days a week via multiple formats including but not limited to XML and JSON" 
 
 Going forward consistency on the metrics seems more important then consistency in the format. Computers and programmers are great at munging data that's available in many formats. 
 However, if one department spending # is calculated differently then another department's, then no amount of WSDL, SOAP, XML or JSON will help. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/terms-terminology-existing-government-controls-management-life-cycle
 
 
 Terms, Terminology, Existing Government Controls, Management Life Cycle
 
 1. While the recovery act is understood by some, it needs more clarity in its terms. 
 The following terms need to be clearly defined on the Recovery.gov site. These terms need a very simple 6th grade-level definition, a high-school-level definition, and a technical or college-level definition, each with examples or descriptions to ensure that the diverse audience has a shared understanding of the ARRA intent and mechanisms. 
 Recovery Reinvestment Transparency Accountability Openness Strategic Oversight private sector public sector fraud waste abuse mismanagement 
 The terms fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement need to be especially well defined, as well as why the ARRA is seeking to prevent them by taking actions to ensure that their opposite behaviors (antonyms) take place within the ARRA implementation, tracking, and reporting. See the table below. 
 
 
 
 
 Office of Inspector General: report allegations of fraud, waste, abuse, or mismanagement of federal funds. 
 
 
 Antonyms 
 
 
 
 
 Fraud (n): swindle; deceit; cheating; forgery; embezzlement; cheat, swindler 
 
 
 Opposite of Fraud = Honesty, Openness, Tranparency 
 
 
 
 
 Waste (v): squander, misspend, misemploy; throw away; destroy, spoil; weaken, impoverish; consume; dwindle away; wither; 
 
 
 Opposite of Waste = Conserve, Sustain, Discipline 
 
 
 
 
 Abuse (n): misuse; maltreatment; corrupt practice; foul language. 
 
 
 Opposite of Abuse = Best Practice, Good Use, Accountability 
 
 
 
 
 Mismanagement: 1. management that is careless or inefficient; "he accomplished little due to the mismanagement of his energies"; (synonym) misdirection; (hyponym) screwup; (derivation) mismanage, mishandle, misconduct 
 
 
 Opposite of Mismanagement = Management comprises directing and controlling a group of one or more people or entities for the purpose of coordinating and harmonizing that group towards accomplishing a goal. Management often encompasses the deployment and manipulation of human resources, financial resources, technological resources, and natural resources. (See Wikipedia) 
 
 
 
 
 Due to the multiple areas of crisis facing our country and the world, we need (across all aspects of the ARRA as well as across all aspects of our Governments, Commercial Organizations, Non-Profit Organizations,, Volunteer Organizations, diverse groups, and individuals) a means to keep our terms clearly defined, understood and consistently applied. We need a "National Recovery, Capabilities, Operations, and Governance Terminology" (See Wikipedia for explanation of Terminology). 
 There are many open-source and commercial technologies and approaches that can built various terminologies having different capabilities. However, this suggested National Terminology more than simple lexicons, glossaries, and dictionaries. A terminology is a rich, meaning-focused, structured arrangement of terms, their meanings, and how they relate to each other. 
 A terminology, when well-developed and shared, provides a means to translate the jargon that often makes it difficult for one person, group, or organization to accurately communicate with another. 
 A terminology can enable all participants in an effort to know and validate each other's meaning, understand and operate well with shared processes and rules, and understand the data and information from the effort. 
 Terminology is an implementation of "semantics". I suggest we use a public domain approach like that at <a href="http://sites.google.com/a/one-world-is.org/gem-ema/Home/gem-approach/gem-metamodel"> http://sites.google.com/a/one-world-is.org/gem-ema/Home/gem-approach/gem-metamodel </a> as a starting method for developing this shared National Terminology to enable better, faster, and cheaper capabilities, operations, and governance across the country. 
 2. There also needs to be communication about previous U.S. Government actions to reduce Fraud, Waste, Abuse, and Mismanagement within the Federal Government and by those who receive Federal funds. This is the same reason that the Recovery Accountability and Transparency (RAT) Board is comprised of Inspectors General (IG). 
 Federal Laws Established to combat fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement. Public Law = P.L., Executive Order = E.O., Title and Code = Rules 
 a. P.L. 95-452, the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended [Title 5 United States Code (U.S.C.), App. 3], which sets forth authority and functions of the Inspector General. 
 b. P.L. 101-12, Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989, which strengthens the protection available to Federal employees against prohibited personnel practices. 
 c. Title 10 Code of Federal Regulations Part 1010, Conduct of Employees, which requires an employee to report fraud, waste, abuse, and corruption in Federal programs. 
 d. Title 18 U.S.C., Crimes and Criminal Procedures, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure which prescribes rules that govern all criminal procedures in the Federal courts of the United States. 
 e. E.O. 12731, "Principles of Ethical Conduct for Government Officers and Employees," dated 10-17-90, which establishes the requirement for Government employees to disclose fraud, waste, abuse, and corruption. 
 f. P.L. 110-409, Inspector General Reform Act of 2008 
 g. P.L. 111-5, February 17, 2009.American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act) 
 
 The standing organization by which IG's across the government collaborate is the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE). (see <a href="http://www.ignet.gov/"> http://www.ignet.gov </a>) Quoted from that site: 
 "In October 2008, the President's Counsel on Integrity and Efficiency previously established under Executive Order was abolished and replaced by provisions of the Inspector General Reform Act (Act). The Act established a new entity, the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE) , which is an interagency council headed by a Chairperson, an Inspector General and an Executive Chairperson, the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The CIGIE is composed of presidentially and agency-head appointed Inspectors General, respectively, with a mission to address integrity, economy and effectiveness issues that transcend individual government agencies and to increase the professionalism and effectiveness of personnel by developing policies, standards, and approaches to aid in the establishment of a well trained and highly skilled workforce in the Offices of the Inspector General." 
 
 The Functions and Duties of the Council include: 
 Continually identify, review, and discuss areas of weakness and vulnerability in Federal programs and operations with respect to fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement; Develop plans for coordinated, government-wide activities that address fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement and promote economy and efficiency in Federal programs and operations. These plans include interagency and inter-entity audit, investigations and evaluation programs and projects to deal efficiently and effectively with those problems concerning fraud and waste that exceed the capability or jurisdiction of an individual agency; Develop policies that will aid in the maintenance of a corps of well-trained and highly skilled OIG personnel; Maintain one or more training academies for the professional training of auditors, investigators, inspectors, evaluators, and other OIG personnel; Submit recommendations of individuals to the appropriate appointing authority to fill Inspector General vacancies, and Maintain an Integrity Committee to receive, review and refer for investigation allegations of wrongdoing that are made against Inspectors General and staff members. 
 All of these responsibilities to prevent mismanagement, and thus reduce the likelihood of abuse or waste of Federal resources, or fraud involving Federal Resources, exist for all Federal activities, including the new ARRA. This needs to be emphasized, especially the role that the current administration's drive towards "transparency" in making this long standing requirement for stewards' accountability more visible to those who own the resources under their stewardship. 
 3. National Management Methodology is needed. 
 The "Rational Thought Process" described by Norman V. Peale is paraphrased as: "knowing where you are, knowing where you want to go, and knowing how to get there". 
 Path = interdependent transition plans. Destination = To-Be state. Starting Point = As-Is state. 
 You don't necessarily need to know much detail about the starting point - you do need to know enough about what needs to change (i.e., gap, deficiency, shortcoming, overlap awareness). Customers are the best sources of this information, i.e., customers of each outward-facing value-chain and each internal value-stream. 
 I use the following simplified definition of "management": resolving natural and continuous disorder into intended order. Another way of expressing what management consists of is: knowing your Current (As-Is) state, knowing your intended (To-Be) state, and building, implementing, and adjusting transition plans to achieve your intended state by intentionally changing your current state. Wikipedia's definition elaborates on this. 
 Any management repository (e.g., an extension of an enterprise architecture (EA) repository), must have a metamodel that can capture the steps and details of the management life cycle methodology followed by the organization and its participants. 
 If there is no cohesive, coherent, and consistent management life cycle methodology applied by the organization and all of its parts, then the organization is operating in a non-rational, fragmented/partial/compartmented, wandering, impulsive, non-ordered manner. This sounds like insanity as a worst case, or aggressively acting in ignorance as a best case! Since educated management knows this, acting without a common management life cycle approach is mismanagement in any case, which opens up increased probability of waste, abuse, and fraud in every case. 
 So, if you don't have continuously refreshed knowledge, through a shared terminology, of your current As-Is state, haven't specified and continually updated your To-Be state, and continually created, refined, and priority-sorted your plans to transition from As-Is to ToBe states, then any changes being pursued are wild, uncontrolled, lunges by leaders and managers towards shiny new things - i.e., the absence of management, i.e., mismanagement. 
 
 If we don't have a common terminology (terms, definitions, concept maps, taxonomy, thesaurus, ontology, axiology) then we very likely to not understand each other, and very likely to hide information, thereby making mismanagement likely, thereby making waste, abuse, and fraud more likely. 
 We all need to recognize that the ARRA is giving increase transparency over long-standing law, orders, and rules that apply management controls to all Federal efforts and resources, including those funded through the ARRA. Inspector Generals in all Federal Agencies and their other government, commercial, and non-profit counterparts, have clearly defined and long-standing responsibilities for ensuring adequate control of Federal Resources. 
 Organization Owners/Citizens/Investors, Boards/Legislatures, Executives, Managers, and Workforce all have responsibilities to establish and comply with those controls. Positions that have the duty and authority to look across all elements of an Organization's staff and subordinate organizations (e.g., Chiefs of Staff, Deputies for Administration) are typically those most likely to ensure controls exist and are enforced, and therefore would pass the scrutiny of the IGs and auditors 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/national-web-site-security-compliance-and-accreditation-service
 
 
 National Web site Security, Compliance, and Accreditation service
 
 My vision is that the federal government would provide a SaaS based solution that would automate the process of becoming a secure provider of Web Services or Web Applications. The Service would provide a self registration for federal agencies, state and local, and other government entities allowing the web administrators the ability to produce a compliance report for their web site or service. This service would scan their applications for malware, vulnerabilities, standard IA best practices, audit for compliance measures like Privacy impact assessments, section 508, and site quality. Once registered the users can use the site on a periodic basis to reassess their level of compliance as well as leverage the services documentation, policy, and best practices as guidelines to bring the same testing standards in house. Once a clean assessment is complete the users of the service can download a seal of approval or certificate stating they completed the federal compliance audit using the service. As the service lives on vulnerability checks will be updated with the latest risks and policies, IA guidelines can be matured to meet the most recent assessment criteria and the users of the service can re-assess their applications. 
 
 
 More and more our own federal websites are contributing to the global spread of malware, spyware and other types of computer based threats to our national security. These are immediately attributed to theft of identities, consumer data, corporate theft, and classified content. We need to take immediate action to address these issues with education, enablement, and technology with a strong commitment to improving the governmental web that we rely on more and more every day. 
 Current practices like FISMA can be dramatically more effective with the assistance of automated testing and assessment tools like the service I have described. Making what was once a paper pushing exercise, a dynamic integrated part of the application life cycle. 
 For more information on IBM technologies that can support the process stated above please see <a class="external-link" href="http://www.ibm.com/federal/security">http://IBM.com/federal/security</a> or follow my twitter ID at <a class="external-link" href="http://www.twitter.com/IBMFedCyber">http://twitter.com/IBMFedCyber</a> 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/protecting-privacy
 
 
 Protecting Privacy
 
 Any IT solution must ensure the privacy and security of data. This is what consumers expect and what our government promises. Because numerous federal and state laws require government to maintain both the confidentiality and the protection of certain data, any IT solution for Recovery.gov must be "government ready" by these criteria. Ensuring the privacy and security of data will increase consumer confidence and trust in the way data is handled by government and non-government actors alike. We cannot gamble public trust on IT solutions that have an open door to bad actors. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-semantic-technology-to-link-data-gov-and-recovery-gov-resources
 
 
 Use semantic technology to link data.gov and recovery.gov resources
 
 Use semantic web technologies to expose metadata and structure of information to link data on recovery.gov with information shared through data.gov. The first level win is to accelerate the process of providing raw data, via a RSS feed. This implies a restful API plus providing definition of the data elements and structure so that people know what they are getting. Semantic web technologies are preferable to XML and microformats for this because they are designed to share and expose definitions of tags as well as data, and to map different sets of tags (i.e., schemas or ontologies) with eachother The second level win is to provide a solution for semantic publishing of information (e.g. data, text, tables, graphics, imagery) tagged and linked for both human and machine interpretation. For example, the Statistical Abstract is a report, well curated, and with a lot of data tables, etc. and also, well thought out metadata, and statistical methodologies about how the data are derived, etc. Making information in recovery.gov and data.gov available for both human and machine processing / interpretation implies being able to expose the concepts and structure of the different kinds of information linked to an underlying ontology. First step might be to post the content in a web 2.0 wiki and upload documents and data sets for downloading. The next step would be to expose the structure / semantics of this information using semantic web technologies. Plus, it is always wise to engage the people who publish the information to help with the modeling. All doable today. -- The third level win is to use semantic metadata and modeling to facilitate data mash-up of different information from different sources: (a) In some cases this is relatively easy to do with web 2.0 techniques. Someone accesses a couple of RSS feeds, and combines these with other data and web services. The mash-up maker resolves any semantic issues as part of creating the mash-up. (b) In other cases, a new use of information can take advantage of the curation and semantic data linkages that some agency, or other party has already provided and expressed as ontology, making it possible to establish user interface features that allow for do-it-yourself exploration and conversations with data. (c) In still other cases, the alignment of concepts and resolution of intents, definitional and methodological issues across data will require additional effort. Obviously, you go for the low hanging fruit first. 
 
 We are moving into an era where we will expect to access and interrelate all information in the internet information by concepts, not just by artifacts and hard coded structures. While it is possible to use XML syntax to identify concepts in hierarchies, assuming we all use the same tags in the same way, this is not adequate for representing and reasoning over the diversity of structured data, documents, and web content. Simple solutions are great. But, we also need an approach that can scale, handle complexity, and can adapt and evolve easily as needs change. Semantic web technology provides a better choice for this. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/gov-buildings-should-report-their-energy-usage-and-track-savings
 
 
 Gov. buildings should report their energy usage and track savings
 
 If we're going to invest in Greening America then we should start (as the Gov has said) with America's Administration itself. 
 Green cars and green technology are an important part of our future success as a nation and I believe tracking and reporting that savings will ensure the type of transparency we need. 
 Every building that receives Goverment Reinvestment and Recovery funding for "greening" should be required to accurately report the savings that investment has made. 
 This reporting should be done by automated sensors and accounting methods, the type that man businesses are looking to develop and companies want to utilize to create our "smart grid". 
 
 It not only privodes a ready made "proving ground" for innovation and funds adoption and development but it serves to prove that an investment was worthwhile and not wasted. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/amazon-public-datasets-credits-for-ec2
 
 
 Amazon Public Datasets. Credits for EC2
 
 
 
 Host on
Amazon as Public Datasets. Grant Amazon Credits to Developers and Organization
for EC2. 
 
 By making
the dataset available as an Amazon public dataset, many Developers and Organizations
will easily be able work with the changing data without the need 
 to download
and configure the latest available information. 
 
 (see <a href="http://aws.amazon.com/publicdatasets/">http://aws.amazon.com/publicdatasets/</a>
) 
 
 By granting
EC2 credits based on merit, (i.e. sharing of the analytics of the raw data made
available as public datasets) Individuals and Organizations using and sharing the
data in the most meaningful ways will be
supported encouraging greater participation and re-use of information . 
 (For more on EC2, see <a href="http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/">http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/</a>) 
 
 With the recent
release of Elastic MapReduce, data-intensive tasks for applications can
be easily implemented. 
 
 (see <a href="http://aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/">http://aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/</a>
) 
 
 
 
 Many good
ideas of how to process the information to be made available are likely to be
presented, but supporting the Individuals and Organizations in this endeavor is
perhaps the most important aspect. Thus the need for EC2 credits and public datasets 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/accessibility-to-data-generated-by-recovery.gov
 
 
 Accessibility to Data Generated by Recovery.gov
 
 All information should be readily accessible for everyone, including
people with disabilities. Adherence to accessibility standards defined
in <a title="Section 508" href="http://section508.gov/">Section 508</a> and the <a title="Web Accessibility Initiative" href="http://www.w3.org/WAI/">Web Accessibility Initiative</a>
(WAI) should be considered opportunities, not impediments to presenting
data on Recovery.gov. For example, adding closed captioning/timed
transcripts to video allows all viewers to search based on text. Also,
adding XSL to raw data allows a wider audience to read and understand
information that would normally be avoided. Many of the same techniques
that make a site more accessible to assistive technology used by people
with disabilities also make the information more machine processable.
Just by following open standards like using valid XHTML will help avoid
missteps and aggravation in making content accessible. And, although
not a technical issue, please use simple and direct language in public
documents. 
While the current Recovery.gov site presents accessibility barriers and
does not follow the standards it claims to follow such as XHTML, the
National Dialogue site is much closer to the goal of being accessible.
To help with making the Recovery.gov site more usable and valuable, we
recommend the following steps: 
 Abide by open and accessibility standards starting in the
design phase through completion. Define the standard used (we recommend
WCAG 2.0 AA). 
 Provide human readable documentation when practicable to explain all posted data. 
 Use authoring tools when practicable that enforce standards and accessibility. Audit all content that is made public to ensure that it is accessible. Include a representation in all distributed and published material
that it is accessible, preferably with an active link to test the
representation so viewers can easily test for themselves. 
 
Also there are some lightweight standards that will help with the
public's ability to comment on and reuse content presented on
Recovery.gov and Data.gov. 
 Use simple web addresses for each and every page, including pages with raw data (see <a id="n8nr" title="Cool URL's" href="http://www.w3.org/Provider/Style/URI">Cool URL's</a>
and avoid using "?q=content" in the site's URLs). This will allow the
public to more easily cite Recovery.gov information in their own web
sites, blogs and communications. In long documents, use anchor tags. 
 Avoid iframes. Like Wikipedia, use simple XHTML with "id" and "class" attributes
that will help avoid CSS problems and make the content more machine
accessible. When possible, avoid locking up text in graphics and depending on
alt tags. Note that downloadable fonts are now possible in most
browsers with graceful degradation to standard fonts for other browsers
(see <a title="CSS font-face" href="http://www.w3.org/TR/css3-webfonts/#font-descriptions">CSS font-face</a>). Always link to referenced laws, regulations and other government sites as practicable. 
 Be especially careful when creating a public dialogue to avoid
technologies that are inaccessible. Dialogues that take place in real
time are more difficult and should require extra care. Consider
allowing the public to self publish their own comments with embedded
links to the relevant part of the Recovery Act and/or Recovery.gov site
(see <a title="OPIA" href="http://opendialogcoalition.org/">OPIA</a> ). 
 
 Making information accessible should be considered a great opportunity for Recovery.gov. 
 
Daniel Bennett of advocatehope.org 
 
and 
 
Sharron Rush, Executive Director, of <a id="e.6s" title="Knowbility" href="http://www.knowbility.org/">Knowbility</a> 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/u-s-government-can-improve-its-portfolio-management-capabilities
 
 
 U.S. Government can improve its portfolio management capabilities
 
 Between the Economic Stimulus funding, the shift in government priorities and increased transparency and management requirements, the agencies need an end to end solution to swiftly rearrange, optimize and manage their portfolio of programs to ensure that their spending is aligned to their strategic objectives. 
 
 The new administration has an increasing focus on improving how funds are spent and reported while saving money to the taxpayers. Millions of work hours are spent every year within the agencies to gather data and create static reports on the progress of programs. That gathering, analyzing and reporting of capital investment data can be a cumbersome and time-consuming process. This can prevent portfolio managers and program managers from spending time analyzing and managing their programs. While tools already exist to assist with portions of the Portfolio Management lifecycle, they usually are disconnected from each others. An adaptable end-to-end solution like our <a class="external-link" href="http://www.epmconnect.com/US/CPIC%20in%20Federal%20Government/Pages/Scenario.aspx"> CPIC </a> Solution enables today's users within the Federal Government to select, control, evaluate, report and manage their investments (technically, taxpayers could have access to reports as well). Some of the benefits from such a solution, keeping in mind that the specifics metrics to be reported can be adjusted, are: 
 ü Provide for a complete &amp; accessible investment inventory. 
 ü Provide a single source of information to facilitate evaluating, priority and balance. 
 ü Greater Audit Ability as Documents are Created 
 ü Enable project reporting and ease of access. 
 ü Ability to Integrate with other LOB Applications 
 ü Reduced Training Time 
 ü Maximize the agencies' investment in technology by providing a solution which uses existing investments 
 
 We believe that such a solution will enable the U.S. Government to be more agile and more efficient with our tax dollars. I am interested in your feedback 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/federal-performance-management-solution
 
 
 Federal Performance Management Solution
 
 The ARRA guidance requires capture of performance milestones from the agencies (program plans) and requires that prime recipients of ARRA funds submit quarterly performance and spending reports. The solution could go a few steps further to morph into a Federal Performance Management Solution that stores all agency performance plan milestones, and requires that Federal agencies report how all contract and grant solicitations will help achieve the agency performance milestones. Then, when the awards of contracts and grants are made, the recipients of those contracts and grants can report progress that then can roll up to the agency's larger performance milestones. The end result would be performance reporting for all federal expenditures that would include all agencies, their performance milestones, how those milestones are supported by contracts and grants, and whether the recipients are performing in fulfillment of the agency milestones. This could easily be expended from ARRA related spending to all federal contracts and grant spending. 
 
 A Federal Performance Management Solution would fully achieve the Administration's open government and transparency agenda from the perspective of spending accountability and performance traceability. This solution would extend the agenda originally articulated in FFATA to include full traceability back to agency performance milestones. This solution will benefit the public by showing how agency spending supports the larger agency milestones and how the recipients of contract and grant funds are acting in alignment with the agency strategy and milestones. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/web-based-community-resource-and-infrastructure-modeling-accountancy
 
 
 Web-based Community, Resource, and Infrastructure Modeling/Accountancy
 
 Integrating, modeling, and visualizing all kinds of data-backed infrastructure and resource information on an open-standards, web-based platform provides the kind of ubiquitous transparency and accountability sought for Recovery spending. 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://onuma.com/architecture/">Onuma Planning Systems</a> (OPS) is just such a system for hosting and integrating a large number of open standards software tools (including budgeting/costing) for modeling of community infrastructure, energy/natural resources, and buildings and has already been successfullly used by the Coast Guard, GSA, and other federal agencies for "low-carbon collaboration" on infrastructure planning, design, and project management. 
 
 Open-standards, web-based, low-carbon collaboration for Recovery spending is important because it provides the potentially transformative working model for project oversight and spending transparency and accountability sought in this initiative. 
 
For years now, <a class="external-link" href="http://onuma.com/architecture/">Onuma Planning Systems (OPS)</a> has been at the forefront of the movement toward open-standards Building Information Modeling (BIM) championed by the National Institute of Building Sciences (NIBS) and their <a class="external-link" href="http://www.buildingsmartalliance.org/">"buildingSMART alliance"</a>
 program. Further, open-standards BIM has been mandated for use on large projects of the GSA, ACE, VA, and other federal agencies. 
 
 The special twist of OPS is that, at this time, it appears to be the only vendor-neutral, web-based system available to host and serve up models of buildings, other infrastructure components, and other diverse datasets in a Google Earth-based (Open Geospatial Consortium) environment. 
 
 Even more interesting is the fact that, due to its open-standards design, OPS is very extensible and can integrate and serve up virtually any kind of data and domain expertise in either visual models or structured data formats to diverse constituencies with role-based security permissions suited to their project involvement. 
 
 In that vein, it would appear that OPS might also be useful, in some fashion, as a kind of neutral platform for modeling of the Smart Grid buildout and associated renewable energy project developmens for our New Clean Energy Economy. 
 
 In effect, OPS can integrate and host far more than just information and models of infratructure and buildings, and can likely further evolve as a kind of unified web platform for "open garden" modeling of most or all of the datasets pertinent to the sustainable change needed so that we can all see the change we want to become. Kind of like SimCity for the real world. 
 
To see examples of OPS in action, check out their webpage on <a class="external-link" href="http://onuma.com/services/BimStorm.php">BIMstorms</a>
 - intensive online urban planning and design charrettes using OPS that have already been conducted in cities around the world. And tune in to the webinar training workshops and other matters pertaining to the upcoming BIMstorm San Diego on the weekend of June 12-14. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/packaged-solution-for-project-accountability-and-transparency-in-10-days
 
 
 Packaged Solution for Project Accountability and Transparency in 10 Days
 
 ARRA's accelerated timeframes and extensive requirements are driving demand for solutions that get organizations up and running quickly. Packaged solutions which can provide a comprehensive framework for project control first - then transparency reporting and visibility; will become the most effective way of quickly implementing standardized, automated processes for complying with the reporting requirements of ARRA. 
 
 The idea is a solution with Software as a Service (SaaS), professional services and maintenance at a fixed price. The solution is designed to enable customers to meet ARRA accountability requirements within 10 days, and establish reporting for public transparency according to guidelines. The soilution combines best-in-class capital project and program management capabilities with integrated funding and grant management to provide agencies the ability to execute projects efficiently with visibility across all phases of the project lifecycle, and automate reporting with ARRA-compliant data feeds. 
 Skire (<a title="blocked::http://www.skire.com/" href="http://www.skire.com/"> www.skire.com </a>) is one such example of this and have a packaged solution which they recently announced called "RapidStart STARR" (Skire Transparency, Accountability, Recovery and Reinvestment). The solution in combination with their experience in capital project management and the collective knowledge of their public-sector customers, enables them to help ARRA recipient organizations accelerate their readiness, control and track their infrastructure projects, in order to more effectively capitalize on immediate funding opportunities. 
 
 
 The heightened emphasis on accountability and transparency places a premium on readiness, streamlined execution and accuracy of information. Agencies receiving ARRA funds, or managing capital improvement and infrastructure projects, must report on fund use and can expect high levels of scrutiny on managing risk, controlling project cost and schedule, and making data available to the public. Organizations that are unable to meet this expectation and report the use of funds quickly, accurately and transparently will be left out of funding opportunities. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/no-apis-please-just-publish-the-data
 
 
 No APIs Please: Just Publish the Data
 
 It may seem counter-intuitive, but it will make Recovery.gov more open
if it can avoid creating APIs for making data available. Please just
publish the data, preferably in XML with XSL, XHTML or XHTML + RDFa,
directly to the web at easily discovered and/or patterned URLs. The web
already has a straightforward protocol, provide a URL and receive a
document. And resulting sets of documents can be treated as an object
database. Unlike SQL/relational databases, the sets of documents are
not private, locked up in a binary system that may only be addressed by
the data owners. Sets of documents in XML at predictable and/or
discoverable URLs with similar structures can be queried by anyone on
the web in real time in sophisticated ways that the publisher may not
have envisioned when creating an API for revealing data locked in an
SQL database. Another aspect which is vital to making the
information more accessible is that when publishing the data in XML it
is possible to make the data human readable by using XSL and/or CSS.
Data formats that are not human readable in a web browser force data
for software and humans segregated unnecessarily. This may seem
esoteric, but it is an important for trust and to make documenting the
data the norm. And also the data becomes citable as a URL that people
can actually understand. There is currently a web site, <a id="rbba" title="XMLDatasets" href="http://xmldatasets.net/">XMLDatasets</a>,
which allows XML documents that may not be human readable (despite
being a text document, XML is code and I do not consider it to be human
readable except when shown in a browser or viewer). XMLDatasets even
shows XML Schemas in an approachable manner. Since APIs do
provide a big advantage in allowing simple coding that might seem less
obvious than if the data was just posted on a web site. For this reason
I have been developing a way to standardize the method of querying and
extracting atomic data from large sets of data. One piece of that
standardization, I call a Repository Schema, maps out all the data in a
set or repository of documents. The first part of the Repository Schema
is for discovering all of the objects/documents in a repository through
URL discovery. The second part is to map out all of the usable parts of
the document. The third part is a listing of transformations, like
between XML languages or to more printable formats. And the fourth is a
listing of external index files that allows fast access without pulling
down and indexing all of the repository documents. Unlike
APIs, anyone could develop their own Repository Schemas for any set of
web documents. There could be competing or overlapping Repository
Schemas, like one for all country pages on Wikipedia with population
breakouts or another of Wikipedia pages for all places that shows
photos. If the standard tools using standards like XQuery were created,
there could be full and open auditing of the data from the source to a
resulting mashup. The audits could give people confidence in data
pulled together into mashups from government documents. Note:
there is also another standard called Rosetta Stone that is
complementary to Repository Schema that allows related repositories to
be linked together. 
 Bibliography: <a id="p.8f" title="XMLDatasets" href="http://xmldatasets.net/">XMLDatasets</a> (first TWOBD application) 
<a id="ls4q" title="Theory of the Web as One Big (Object) Database" href="http://advocatehope.org/tech-tidbits/theory-of-the-web-as-one-big-database">Theory of the Web as One Big (Object) Database</a> 
<a id="bnrs" title="Repository Schema Standard" href="http://advocatehope.org/tech-tidbits/repository-schema">Repository Schema Standard</a> 
<a id="if4z" title="XQuery WikiBook Repository Schema Section" href="http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/XQuery/Link_gathering">XQuery WikiBook Repository Schema Section</a> 
 
 If there were no resource limits, there would be no reason to not both publish data in human
readable formats that are also machine processable along with using
APIs. But once information is published at permanent URLs with all of
the data included, all of the work is really done (and many government
agencies just publish raw data which is much easier and better than
creating an API). And making all of the data human readable will have
lots of unforeseen benefits. Also, as certain data structures become
standardized, such as through RDFa and Microformats, it will be
possible to create lightweight Repository Schemas that pull documents
across multiple publishers. And one example might be for web content
management tools to standardize now informal microformats like finding
navigation in @class="nav" or page content in @id="content". Creating
APIs for open data (as opposed to commercial sources that purposely
want to restrict access) will be a costly and, I think, unnecessary
step. Daniel Bennett and thanks to Joe Carmel of XMLDatasets and Chris Wallace of XQuery Wikibook 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-of-business-process-management-bpm-technology-for-recovery-programs
 
 
 Use of Business Process Management (BPM) Technology for Recovery Programs
 
 At Oakbrook Solutions, we have teamed up with Appian Corporation out of Vienna, VA to leverage Enterprise Business Process Management (BPM) technology to provide process automation, management and accountability solutions for complex and changing processes in the Wealth and Investment Management Industry. 
 Now that the US Government has invested in economic recovery programs on behalf of the US taxpayer, we recommend a close look at properly applied BPM technology as a scalable platform that can provide the following: 
 Rapid deployment of automated solutions to manage Economic Recovery Programs with no programming required (i.e. we built a prototype to manage the CPP application process using 8 hours of a business analyst's time) Ablity to tie together disparate data sources and organizational entities into a single integrated process Complete visibility into the end-to-end process with full audit trail that drives process transparency and accountability. Intuitive Workflow Design with integrated Business Rules architecture enables rapid deployment and facilitates ongoing change in a collaborative environment Rich portal, content management, and user collaboration capabilites. Comprehensive drill-down dashboards created with no programming. Automated generation, storage, and version control of all documents associated a process. 
 
 The US Government needs a platform to enable rapid deployment and ongoing change of solutions to manage Economic Recovery programs. The platform needs to enable process integration (both data integration and user interaction integration) among all organizational entities affiliated with a program. The platform must enable complete process transparancy and accountability to satisfy ever changing requirements in a challenging economic and political environment. Traditional software development efforts simply cannot keep up with the pace of change and deployment requirements mandated by these programs. 
 BPM technology is built to provide these capabilities. Properly applied by financial services industry experts, a BPM-based solution would be an extremely effective and versatile platform that would serve as the backbone for the integrated automation, management, transparency, and compliance for the US Treasury's Economic Recovery programs. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/lessons-learned-from-hurricane-katrina-plus-ffata-status-reports-sub-awards
 
 
 Lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina plus FFATA/status reports/sub-awards
 
 The ARRA legislation creates technical and business problems similar to Hurricane Katrina Recovery in Louisiana and Mississippi, and the lessons learned could serve the ARRA process very well. As was the case with Federal funds to support post-Katrina rebuilding efforts, promises are great, expectations are high, and timeline to deploy is extremely short. ARRA must meet a wide-range of challenges that include: 
 Lack of standard financial assistance reporting at all levels of government, Rapid deployment, Ability to handle large number of transactions, Co-existence with a wide range of State stove-pipe systems, Lack of standardized grant identifiers at the State level and even within State agencies themselves, Collection of never before requested data, Access to and security of assistance data, Solution flexibility and responsiveness in light of expected changes and adjustments to the Federal ARRA guidance, and Fraud prevention capabilities. 
 
 Understanding how to effectively respond and properly manage expectations in a public and politically charged environment is, as the commercial says, priceless. For Hurricane Katrina Recovery, our product solution supported: 
 
 Rapid implementation: Production-ready three weeks after requirements finalized, Scalability: Ability to meet wide range of transaction volumes -- In Louisiana alone, more applications were submitted in one day than in the busiest day of Grants.gov's history supporting the entire Federal government, Unique data collection requirements: Substantial and unique eligibility data, Historical Tracking: Record of all data feeds into and out of the system, Rapidly changing requirements: Constantly changing project requiring extensive flexibility and responsiveness, Fraud prevention: No money provided until all data verified against sources (Insurance company payouts, FEMA payouts, National Flood Insurance Program payouts, SBA loans), and High visibility and transparency: Weekly reports posted for public tracking. 
 
 Additional existing product functionality that could benefit the ARRA process includes: 
 
 End-to-end grants management processes Collection of all FFATA data elements Financial and status reporting Notification, alerts and reminders Sub-grant tracking and reporting Grants.gov interface 
 
 Repositories are needed at the Federal level, as well as each State for their ARRA assistance and sub-award activities tracking within their state. Once the data is collected in a consistent and standardized format within the repository, validation interface requirements, governance, and other pieces can be incrementally added. STR would be glad to meet with the Recovery Board to discuss further. Contact STR.Grants Dean Moore, <a href="mailto:dmoore@strllc.com"> dmoore@strllc.com </a>. 
 
 The lessons learned, as well as investments made in people and tools would help lower the risk, and provide benefit to the process. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/proposed-metamodel-for-recovery-act-accountability-transparency-reporting
 
 
 Proposed metamodel for Recovery Act accountability / transparency reporting
 
 In response to Mr. Earl Devaney's request sent out via email this morning, I have attached a diagram showing, at a high level, a proposed metamodel for Recovery Act accountability and transparency reporting: 
 
 This is just a first draft, of course, but this model contains most (if not all) of the data elements needed to support creation / generation of all reports required by the law and OMB policy (OMB M-09-15), including the major communications reports, funding notification reports, and periodic financial reports. It also captures important performance metrics like job creation and per-state funding, and encapsulates the semantics needed to geo-encode the instances of stimulus spending. It is high-level enough that the data elements should map fairly cleanly to existing Federal financial management, grants management, procurement, and budget formulation data models. 
 I am currently working on an XML schema representation of this metamodel, and would be delighted to have further discussions with the Recovery Act Accountability and Transparency Board about the applicability of this model to Recovery.gov. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/easy-presentation-of-recovery-gov-data-using-semantic-lenses
 
 
 Easy presentation of recovery.gov data using semantic lenses.
 
 Rcovery.gov contains far more data than can be easily managed or understood by simply visiting the site. Semantic lens technology allows people to combine data of their choosing with widgets of their choosing to work with the data they need in the view they want. This type of capability will make the recovery.gov data much more useful to anyone who visits the site and make the achieving the desired transparency realistic. Visitors to recovery.gov should have the ability to easily create unlimited views of any data hosted on the Web site. With semantic lens technology they can. With semantic lens technologies related views are automatically found together with ways to link widgets together. People can create an endless variety of tables and charts, maps and mash-ups of recovery data as they see fit. Furthermore, these views can be saved for reuse and shared with other visitors to recovery.gov. 
 
 Transparency does not exist if the data is rendered inaccessible by its format or sheer mass. We need an easy to use and combine set of widgets that allow recovery.gov data to combined and viewed by the average citizen. This will foster not only the feeling of transparency but transparency itself. By providing a flexible front end--a window into the mass of recovery spending data--transparency will move from being a distant goal to a very present reality. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/provide-a-citizen-centric-collaborative-portal
 
 
 Provide a Citizen-centric Collaborative Portal
 
 To fulfill its transparency and accountability mission, Recovery.gov should be a collaborative Portal that gives citizens visibility to information on how their tax dollars are spent. Recovery.gov should provide citizens with tools for interacting with the Portal and for placing the available information in a meaningful context. 
 
 Our Institute for Public Service Value has conducted research that identified the following critical success factors for Web-based transparency and accountability tools, each of which is relevant for Recovery.gov: 
 1. Supplement financial data with "public value" Return on Investment metrics--defined by citizen-centric outcomes and outputs --enabling all citizens to easily understand spending effectiveness and efficiency. 
 2. Provide an intuitive, customizable and user-friendly interface so citizens can easily access relevant data, including spending at the agency, department, and geography (zip code, neighborhoods) levels. 
 3. Provide real-time data and statistics that enable quick comparison of performance and spending over time. 
 4. Generate annual reports on agency budget and financial performance with short- and long-term financial plans, financial audit and performance review results, and historical trend data. 
 5. Enhance the Portal with public education programs that arm citizens with a deeper understanding of government spending priorities, strategies and operations. 
 
 Furthermore, it is important that Recovery.gov be more than a static website that just pushes information out from the Government. Support for stimulus program can be generated by building the options below into an interactive Portal: 
 · Offer citizens the standard option to view information anonymously 
 · Offer citizens the option to log in to the Portal and customize it based on their interests 
 o Offer content that complements stimulus funding data, such as: 
 § News feeds 
 § Dun &amp; Bradstreet and Central Contractor Registration information about the vendors receiving stimulus funds 
 o Offer alerts tied to stimulus funding updates, news or editorial content updates, or additions of discussion items 
 o Offer chat/blog capability that enables citizens to interact with Government agencies 
 o Offer agency- or program-specific Idea Forums (similar to the IT Solutions Recovery Dialogue) 
 Providing these features will give citizens a chance to feel involved in the Recovery process, and will increase public support for the overall stimulus program. 
 
 Public support for the stimulus program will be further enhanced if the ideas above are enabled quickly. Data collection for stimulus reporting can be accelerated by establishing a clearinghouse for information and creating a standardized data template across stakeholders. Recovery.gov Portal functionality can be ramped up in the shortest amount of time by modeling features provided in existing public sector Portals. Some notable examples are listed below: 
 New York City : the "NYCStat Stimulus Tracker" (<a title="http://www.nyc.gov/html/ops/nycstim/html/home/home.shtml
blocked::http://www.nyc.gov/html/ops/nycstim/html/home/home.shtml" href="http://www.nyc.gov/html/ops/nycstim/html/home/home.shtml"> http://www.nyc.gov/html/ops/nycstim/html/home/home.shtml </a>) 
 · Provides up-to-date project-specific and neighborhood-specific stimulus spending information 
 · Shows how stimulus funds are distributed to different projects 
 · Provides an interactive map that visually compares spending and progress across neighborhoods 
 State of Maryland: " Maryland Funding Accountability" (<a title="http://www.spending.dbm.maryland.gov/
blocked::http://www.spending.dbm.maryland.gov/" href="http://www.spending.dbm.maryland.gov/"> http://www.spending.dbm.maryland.gov/ </a>) 
 · Allows users to view information on vendor payments exceeding $25,000 
 · Enables search by agency, vendor, or vendor zip code for vendors receiving payment 
 · Displays the dollar amount each individual vendor received in the last fiscal year in each zip code 
 State of Kentucky: "Kentucky's OpenDoor" (<a title="http://opendoor.ky.gov/Pages/default.aspx
blocked::http://opendoor.ky.gov/Pages/default.aspx" href="http://opendoor.ky.gov/Pages/default.aspx"> http://opendoor.ky.gov/Pages/default.aspx </a>) 
 · Enables citizens to access detailed financial information and view it graphically 
 · Includes a fully interactive kids section with games and cartoons to provide training on government finance 
 · Includes a budget tutorial that allows the average citizen to learn about state expenditures, revenues and budget development 
 State of Texas : "Open Book Texas" (<a title="http://www.window.state.tx.us/openbook/" href="http://www.window.state.tx.us/openbook/"> http://www.window.state.tx.us/openbook/ </a>) 
 · Shows how the government purchases goods and services in terms of leveraging buyer power 
 · Allows users to access transparency information for cities, counties, school districts, river authorities, and metropolitan transit authorities 
 · Displays what data agencies have made available online and what data they have not 
 
 Lastly, it will be critically important for the Federal Government to work closely together with state and local governments in the areas of governance and program management. These efforts will help ensure data quality across federal agencies and state and local communities, and will help Recovery.gov present a "single version of the truth." 
 
 Building out Recovery.gov as a citizen-centric collaborative Portal will give Americans a chance to feel involved and engaged in the stimulus program. Providing contextual and outcome-based information will make the core stimulus financial data more meaningful for citizens. Making stimulus data and interactive Portal functionality available quickly will satisfy the demands of citizens to know how their tax dollars are being spent as soon as possible. All of these ideas are geared towards showing Americans that their Government is being responsive to the interest of its citizens, and are therefore crucial for garnering and sustaining public support of the stimulus program. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/simple-way-to-reducefraud-non-obvious-relationship-awareness
 
 
 Simple Way To ReduceFraud -- Non-Obvious Relationship Awareness
 
 The Recovery Board should look to leverage cutting edge tools that provide "Non-Obvious Relationshiop" capabiltiies designed specifically for reducing fraud and waste -- These tools will help the Board identify "Who's Who, and Who Know's Who" with a high degree of precision. 
 In many of the conversations that we at IBM are having across Federal Agencies and State &amp; Local government, leaders are telling us they are facing intensifying fraud challenges that are fast outstripping their capabilty to respond. 
 While the the types of fraud are wide and varied, two examples are -- 1) one individual of business entity submitting the same grant proposal multiple times, across multiple agencies, using he same or slightly different indentification attributes, and 2) The proposal "reviewer/approver" sharing the same address, phone number or other identifying information with the "proposer". 
 The good news is that the Recovery Board will be collecting an granular level of data on who is actually recieving Recovery Act investments, and how the dollars will be spent. In this level of data lies the opportunity for the board to develop a capability for "Non-Obvious Relationship Awareness" or NORA. This capability would provide the Identity &amp; Relationship resolution -- spotting common or similar addresses, phone numbers, etc, across multiple entities and identities -- thus allowing them to eliminate double dipping or conflicts of interest. 
 
 
 
 Given the unprecedented level of investment the Recovery Act wiull bring to bear, it also presents the Board and the taxpayer with the potential for an unprecedented level of Fraud and Waste. If only 1% of the investment is lost to fraud -- a low number given historical averages for government programs -- the taxpayer will lose close to $8B to fraud. The capability for "Non Obvious Relationship Awareness" now exists, and is currently being used across the Federal Gov't in both social service and DHS/DOD agencies. IBM provides these capabilities as a component of its "InfoSphere" suite, through its InfoSphere Entity Analytics Solutions (EAS) InfoSphere is an industry unique, unified platform for delivering trusted information. IBM acquire NORA capability thrugh the acquisition of two small, best of breed SW companues. As a part of this platform, Recovery.gov can leverage the same tools it would use for data quality, consistency and accuracy to reduce fraud. This extends the value proposition of any investment in these tools. More information on InfoSphere and IBM Threat &amp; Fraud Intelligence can be found here: 
 <a href="http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/infosphere/">http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/infosphere/</a> 
 <a href="http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/ips/solutions/tfi/">http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/ips/solutions/tfi/</a> 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/standards-standards-and-standards
 
 
 Standards, Standards and Standards
 
 
 
 Be sure to look into all the "standards" that pertain to
data collection, visualization, reporting and manipulation. 
 
 Before you look into tooling it is critical to understand the methodologies
rather than the tooling initially. you want to make sure you tooling
infrastructure will be flexible and scalable for future needs. 
 An example would be SNIA standards, www.snia.org, more specifically SNIA's
SMI-S, XAM, and Cloud Storage Standards. 
 As an example the Storage Management Initiative Specification (SMI-S) was
designed to collect, monitor and provision heterogeneous network environments
using standards. More importantly, this allows multi vendor support, a plug and
play methodology where interoperability is key to minimizing software
development and understanding you have vendor choice. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/central-location-and-clear-results
 
 
 Central location and clear results
 
 One website not hundreds should show people where there money is going. Right now you go to the recovery.gov and it carries you to an agency or a state and then maybe to another site. Use tables and charts to show exactly who got what. In a format that even people with no education can easily follow. 
 
 If I have trouble finding the information and I am a computer expert - how can people who are not computer literate find anything. I still haven't found any of the information I am looking for. I can find the grants that have been approved but still can't find out if the money have gone out. People are angry about this spending because they don't know where it is going and who it is helping. They would be much more tolerate and understanding if they could see where "their money" is going. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/model-local-reporting-process-on-online-income-tax-sites
 
 
 model local reporting process on online income tax sites
 
 With April 15th still a recent memory, my suggestion is that the Recovery.gov reporting process mirror the process that on-line income tax reporting programs use (<a class="external-link" href="http://tinyurl.com/csvncr">Neal Hannon &amp; I explained this recently in a TechPresident op-ed</a>). 
 After all, many of those reporting on the expenditures will be small communities without a lot of staff ( even big communities may have lost a lot of their specialists who could do this function), Accordingly, the process must be designed so people with no special training or resources can still complete it quickly and accurately: that's very similar to the challenge the online tax programs address. Many of their features were designed to address parts of the tax filing process that directly parallel those facing reporting on stimulus spending: 
 Don't ask the recipients to make any calculations. Have the calculations run invisibly within the web site. Instead, focus on designing a totally web -based process (so that you don't have to worry about printed forms or government employees filling out traditional data files) When you first log on to these tax sites, they ask you to provide some basic demographic information. That determines whether you fall into several classes where specific deductions might apply or additional information is needed. Since Recovery.gov must apply to every community from tiny ones to huge cities, it's crucial to quickly assess what major categories a specific community may fall in (such as urban/rural, high unemployment/minorities/immigrants) so that the process can then automatically determine which categories are relevant and interactive processes to fill out each portion will be triggered. Design the process so data entered locally is automatically augmented, or "tagged" with meta-data ("information about information'), using a structured data format such as <a class="external-link" href="http://www.xbrl.org/WhatIsXBRL/">XBRL, the eXtensible Business Reporting Language</a> . Once a specific piece of data has been entered into the reporting system and is tagged, it becomes what you might call a "data nugget," with context and meaning garnered from the metadata. The data lives not as a form, but as information accessible by any computer program that can "call" or retrieve the data. On the Federal level, the FDIC already uses this approach to capture quarterly information from the nation's more than 8,000 financial institutions. Again, similar to the online tax programs, use the full range of Web 2.0 tools to guide those filling out the reports -- brief videos, reading the exact wording of the tax code, using wizard processes that guide you through the process, and (a recent addition) also let you pose a question to online users (via a wiki) who might be able to clarify the answer for you. The combination of all these tools acknowledges that we each have different learning styles and ways of processing information. Finally, these programs run you through a final review and error catching process, based in part on whether your answers are exceptions to widespread norms (that doesn't mean that the answers are necessarily wrong, just that they deserve more scrutiny on your part because IRS reviewers are also likely to scrutinize them more carefully). Why not a Recovery.gov variation on the theme? 
 
 
 A lot of time and planning has gone into technology for the Recovery.gov website, where all of the reports on stimulus spending will be aggregated. 
 However, the biggest potential for errors is at the beginning of the process, when recipient communities have to report how they spent the money and the results. If those numbers are off, every succeeding step in the process will be skewed. Doing everything possible to reduce the chance of error is vital. 
 Online tax programs only ask for data, and automatically generate forms based on that data: the user doesn't have to make any calculations, reducing the risk of error. Likewise, an entity reporting stimulus spending in a rules-based format need not worry about anything but accurate data inputs. Reporting can be automated at the recovery.gov website. 
 A data-centric approach from start to finish in Recovery.gov is critically important. Collecting accurate data, as opposed to paper-based reports, provides increased accuracy and flexibility in both the collection of data and the reporting of the data. . If structured data is used, it could be accessed both instantly and simultaneously by a number of government agencies and externally by the public to assure accountability and transparency. 
 It could also be the model for a unified reporting process so that communities and states would be able to file a single data file, which, because it would consist of structured data, could be accessed simultaneously and instantly by every agency, both cutting reporting costs significantly and allowing simultaneous review by multiple agencies. Such a system,,<a class="external-link" href="http://tinyurl.com/cbmnj7"> the Dutch Taxonomy Project</a>, is already in place in the Netherlands. Online sites have radically streamlined the 1040 preparation process for many Americans. A parallel, cloud-based reporting system capitalizing on the many years of experience with the online tax preparation process could help Recovery.gov simplify the stimulus reporting process, capture structured data "nuggets" that could also be used in a variety of other reports, and significantly improve the accuracy of the stimulus reporting process. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recover-act-project-information-we-can-trust
 
 
 Recover Act Project Information We Can Trust
 
 Mandate the use of a construction project management system by all recipients of Recovery Act infrastructure related funds. This ensures the information reported to Recovery.gov isn't just project "information" but information we can all trust. 
 
 Construction project management systems are forward facing "systems of record" which provide the scope, schedule and budget details required to run a portfolio of infrastructure related projects. 
 The systems include standard, configurable reports providing transparency so all fund beneficiaries are known clearly, accurately and immediately upon contract award. They can track any goals or targets desired including jobs created per project and provide program and project status reports upon request or to public websites such as Recovery.gov. 
 Construction project management systems protect the validity of the information they manage through security and audible activity logs so every bit of information can be tracked and verified before it's reported on. After all, most organizations managing large construction projects use these systems today for business critical decisions and compliance reporting. In fact, this is technology which the federal government already owns and just needs wider implementation. 
 There are many excellent ideas on this site which address the presentation and communication of information, but the most critical component to the Recovery Act program is transparency and accountability of our tax dollars being allocated, committed and spent and the associated results. Implementing a construction project management system enforces procedures and processes associated with contracting, change management, invoicing, competitive bids and field reporting so consumers of Recovery.gov information can trust the information on the site. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-reporting-based-on-the-xml-and-web-services-standards
 
 
 Data Reporting based on the XML and Web Services standards.
 
 Establish the reporting standard, interval, specification (preferably XML) and provide Web Services façade that can be used by federal, state and local government entities to submit data. This must include regular (monthly/quarterly) data submission mandates. 
 
 The use of the XML-based report specification and Web Services will enable reporting entities to easily comply, automate and orchestrate their internal business process. It will be easier for the Recovery.gov site to manage data from different entities as they all are in prescribed format. Most reporting organizations already have the necessary technology to automatically integrate with Web Services and exchange XML file formats. 
 One of the good examples to follow will be that of XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language). XBRL is a standards-based way to communicate business and financial information that supports information modeling and the expression of semantic meaning commonly required in business reporting. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/twitter-or-twitter-like-with-logs-communication
 
 
 Twitter, or Twitter like, with logs, communication
 
 Using Twitter offers very low cost (Twitter is free), real time announcement, comment and review. Using Twitter, or something like Twitter (Gov may want to design own version, for security and logging) is an opportunity to really offer openness in real-time. Also, your natdialg website could use some changes, like smaller fonts, banners.... brief "Idea" list and etc., so more than a few Ideas can be displayed on a page. 
 Also, hire me! I desperately need the work, or I lose my home next month! 
 Now, where is the home mortgage recovery website? 
 Sincerely, 
 WOOMZA.com 
 
 You want openness? Offering that in Real-Time and allowing everyone to respond is ideal. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/using-alerts-and-notifications-to-provide-timely-problem-detection
 
 
 Using alerts and notifications to provide timely problem detection
 
 One of the key benefits of data transparency is the ability to "crowdsource" the watchdog function - i.e., give millions of citizens the tools they need to mine information about stimulus spending (e.g., Recovery.gov), and they will raise an alarm if they see any potential mismanagement of taxpayers' dollars. However, even with unprecedented data transparency and sophisticated data analysis / visualization tools, there is still the possibility that instances of irregular spending will "fall through the cracks" given the sheer volume of data. And, as we all know, the longer a problem goes undetected, the harder it is to fix it when it is finally found out. A way to solve this problem is through implementation of a rules-based system of "alerts and notifications." This system would alert agency officials and any other interested party to any stimulus spending occurring outside the bounds of established parameters. The rules for generating an alert/notification would be tied to Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) derived from accountability scorecards of the type described in my previous article located at http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/using-balanced-scorecards-for-performance-based-analytics . For example, an alert could be raised if a prime recipient reported excessive spending as compared to an associated KPI such as cost-per-job-created. Alerts and notifications can be provided to subscribers using various methods: RSS and Atom feeds, email notifications, automated telephony systems, and text messages, to name a few. A key benefit of having a system of alerts and notifications in place is more "proactive management of risk." In other words, oversight officials become aware of, and then can address, problem areas before they become front page news stories. There are numerous technologies, both commercial and open source, that can be used to implement the "alerts and notifications" features described in this article. For example, Unisys has developed a Recovery Act reporting solution that implements a system of alerts and notifications tied to its four different types of "accountability scorecards." The Unisys Recovery Act reporting solution was developed using various open source technologies, and is designed to integrate well with Government web hosting environments. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/first-make-the-data-available-in-raw-form
 
 
 First, make the data available in raw form
 
 Worry about fancy displays, databases, formats and whatnot later. There are plenty of people out there who will download the data and parse it on their own, producing interesting graphs and tables. 
 
 Because if you try to put together a perfect or even really spiffy system before anyone gets a chance to peruse and calculate over the data, it's likely that nothing will ever happen. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/federal-government-telecommuting-boondoggle
 
 
 Federal Government Telecommuting Boondoggle
 
 There exists in the federal government a program called telecommuting. Telecommuting is an agreement between federal unions and the federal government where the federal employee works at home from 1 day to 4 days a week. The problem with federal agency telecommuting is that there is no accountability for work done at home. Government management does not require a deliverable when a federal employee returns from working at home. Many perform there duties at work and claim that they accomplished a task at home when in reality they are having a 4 day weekend. How do they do this? Well they work 3 days a week for 10 hours a day. Then they claim to work 10 hours at home. So, the federal employee is at his or her duty station beginning on Tuesday and ending on Thursday. There are some cases where federal employees work 3 days at home and work 1 day a week at their duty station. One federal worker asked a guy who was telecommuting what he thought. The telecommuting federal employee stated, "it's a boondoggle". The taxpayer should not have to pay 40 hours a week for 30 hours of pay. This is a travesty. There must be accountability! If you work at home for 10 hours a day on taxpayer dollars then you must show a deliverable, work accomplished! How to enforce this is a matter of discussion, but make no mistake about it there needs to be a plan in place that corrects telecommuting boondoggles for the taxpayer is paying federal employees for an extended weekend. 
 
 
 
 
 It is a manner that answers the question? Is actual work being performed by federal employees at work while they telecommute. A deliverable is paramount for federal employees who work at home or for that manner any telecommuter. Accountability must be implemented otherwise telecommuting is denied. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/thenationaldialogue-org-needs-to-scale-better
 
 
 Thenationaldialogue.org needs to scale better
 
 The web server behind this site does not seem to be able to handle the load it is experiencing. It is timing out on transactions. It should be replaced with servers that scale better. 
 Overestimate the expected load on recovery.gov, rather than under. 
 
 Can't have a useful discussion if the site is not usable. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/system-for-enabling-americans-and-for-transparency-seat
 
 
 System for Enabling Americans, and for Transparency (SEAT)
 
 
 Most people focus on getting the data into Washington,
which definitely is important. However, this proposal is focusing on
getting the data out of Washington, and into the hands of researchers,
not-for-profits, the media, colleges &amp; universities, individual citizens,
and anybody else who wants to review the data using their own research
methodologies. 
 
 Currently, the Federal government collects literally
millions of data elements annually on a wide array of critical programs. Some of this information is shared in a
useful format so that those interested can gain access to the raw data and do
their own analysis. Unfortunately, by
and large, the vast majority of data collected by the Federal government is
either not made readily available to the general public, or is simply printed
in hard copy and very little is ever done with this data. 
 
 We believe that making this data easily accessible in
formats that facilitate data reporting has many benefits that go beyond just
government transparency. 
 
My team and I have designed a system architecture that enables each Federal
agency to make their data readily available to the public through various
modern means, from a single source, including Web Services, RSS Feeds, XML, and
other Web 2.0 technologies, as well as more traditional means such as FTP and
file extracts. 
 
 

The key to this proposal is having each agency "plug
into" this system (we've code-named SEAT (System for Enabling Americans, and
for Transparency)), and make their data available. We have designed methods to enable the individual agencies to
make their data available to SEAT in many different formats as well. 
 
 
 This proposal allows interested parties to
access the vault of Federal data from one location in the format that is best
for them. Once able to access the data
and create their own meaningful reports and analysis, the general public will
be enabled to conduct their own analysis on the criteria they want. It will truly enable information sharing, and
thus, accountability and transparency. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/map-of-ongoing-recovery-projects
 
 
 Map of Ongoing Recovery Projects
 
 Provide a simple, usable map using existing online mapping services that shows where Recovery money is being used, project-by-project, down to the local level. Although the money might be hard to track as it exchanges hands, in the end there's always a physical location where the actual work is being done. Show that location on the map and have the marker provide more information on who's involved with that project. 
 
 Citizens want to quickly see what is happening in THEIR state, THEIR county, THEIR city. Providing a mapping capability for all the work that is actually being generated by Recovery money is important for citizens to know where their tax dollars are being spent...or not. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/government-integrity
 
 
 Government integrity?
 
 Having honesty and integrity above all else 
 
 I think people feel devided from the government and feel that their problems are not worthy unless they are completely broke, have no job or live on a program that the government pays for with the working man's money. Taxation without representation. People in political positions that are dishonest and yet we are supposed to be trusted and do the right thing. A double standard and not very encouraging to the average Joe. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/the-simple-language-discussion
 
 
 The Simple Language Discussion
 
 I work in a narrower field; my job is mostly finding, analyzing, and communicating aggregate health care performance data. I have been working in public transparency of this data for eight years or so, and in that time I have learned this: if you make it too simple you will lose credibility. Therefore, I would suggest that a tiered communication method be used, wherein at first pass the information is simple and layman-friendly. However, options to surface or display8 additional data or deeper, "harder to understand data" should remain. 
 I would also counsel the group that it is very easy to dumb down data, it is a lot harder to convince your primary stakeholders, those being reported on, that the dumbed-down data is an accurate reflection on them. 
 I am not a graphic designer, my strength is in the data, but I have an <a class="external-link" href="http://hcrc2.abouthealthquality.org/show_group_compare.php?entity_type=hmo&amp;searchby=county&amp;searchcrit_county_county_id=31&amp;measure_group=10">example</a> of what I'm talking about at <a class="external-link" href="http://hcrc2.abouthealthquality.org/show_group_compare.php?entity_type=hmo&amp;searchby=county&amp;searchcrit_county_county_id=31&amp;measure_group=10">AboutHealthQuality.org</a> - if you click that link, below any data table is an option to display more detail. This was added after years of feedback from hospital and HMO staff who wanted more of the underlying data, or simply more detail. 
 
 Because making it simple is not so simple. The first and most vocal users are those being transparentized. Serve them too; with their buy in the product becomes much more valuable and friendly to work with. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/demystifying-recovery-projects-via-3d-navigation
 
 
 Demystifying Recovery Projects via 3D Navigation
 
 introduce a 3D user interface into recovery.gov for rapidly navigating data about recovery projects and enhancing their transparency. The proposed visualization technique draws upon two patterns common to both large-scale initiatives and smaller-scale projects, regardless of focus: 
 
 1. All projects reflect by nature a decision to initiate a set of actions based on an observation of need. Consequently, projects cycle through four simple phases from observation through implementation, and this simple cycle can be used to both visually organize and rapidly navigate through multiple projects, and access related information. 
 
 2. Projects are both hierarchical and relational by nature. This enables an intuitive approach to 3D object-within- and object-to- object navigation without requiring the use of a geospatial context like that used in Google Earth. 
 
 The proposed 3D navigation interface will be made available as a web service so it can be readily combined or mashed-up with rich information discovery and filtering techniques such as semantic lenses to enable intuitive 3D navigation of recovery information that is specifically relevant to citizen interests and abilities. Users will have the ability to select multiple filtering attributes through a series of dropdowns and sliders, and transparent visual layers will enable rapid, "fly-through" navigation to specific areas of interest. 
 
 This approach could readily make use of the current data being reported via the AARP TAFS detailed spreadsheets, as well as integrating additional project-specific details that could be made available by recovery project sponsors and managers. 
 
 Our team has applied a similar approach to enhance community awareness, collaboration and participation in green technology innovation. We have recently proposed a richer 3D visualization interface to help the US Army Chief Information Officer enhance awareness, alignment and resource utilization across Army IT projects. 
 
 
 Despite the laudable efforts to make spending transparent through recovery.gov, it is very difficult for citizens to readily navigate through the current set of online data, assess how their money is being spent, and, in particular, to judge the outcome or benefits being derived from those investments. This is largely because of the widely distributed, specialized and highly inter-related nature of the Government organizations and initiatives participating in the recovery. Consequently, President Obama is unable to maximally leverage the insight, skills and common sense participation of citizens to help ensure the best use of these recovery resources. The proposed 3D user interface will help enhance transparency for the recovery effort, but may prove even more beneficial with expanding citizen participation in the critical Government transformations yet to come, and with finding the resources necessary to make those happen. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/enforce-americans-with-disabilities-act
 
 
 Enforce Americans With Disabilities Act
 
 Eliminate each and every concern that a disabled person fears in losing benefits, when attempting to work. 
 
 Using and Internet Connection virtually anyone can contribute to the economy, Technology is already available that could make it possible for disabled persons to work from the homes. The Americans with Disabilities Act can be enforced if the burden of accommodating the special needs of a disabled person in the normal office environment. 
 
 The cost of transporting the disabled person from home to work is the second costly deterrent making it nearly impossible for a handicapped person to a place of work. 
 
 Most Americans with disabilities could do some work but cannot control when and how much they can contribute due to the many health related factors that prevent them from pursuing gainful employment. 
 
 The only realistic solution is to identify jobs within the national economy that would be done on a flex-time schedule, from home, via a network and PC. Some of the jobs include: Call Center Agents, Data Processing, Medical Transcription, Teaching and Consulting in areas the disabled person might be knowledgeable in. 
 
 Tax breaks already exist for employers who wish to employ the disabled. However, the vast majority of employers can not create a workspace to accommodate, and have little or no education about their rights and responsibilities of employing the disabled. It is easier to just not get involved. 
 
 Simple Solutions- 
 
 Educate employers about their responsibilities and options under the Americans with Disabilities Act. 
 
 Ensure that no disabled person will face losing benefits for making an attempt to work. 
 
Offer genuine opportunities through an online job bank listing openings of flex time, tele-commuting employment.
 . 
 
 Restore the self-esteem of the disabled. 
 
 Keep it simple and keep it away from the states. Federal Programs work, State Programs have not. 
 
 According the the Social Security Administration 3 out of every 10 gainfully employed persons working today, will become disabled before reaching the age of 55. 
 This resprsent millions of valuable human resources, and billions of dollars of money being directed into many different programs that only reach a token fraction of the disabled community. Aside from direct benefits, most of this money is being spent on social workers and other beaucrats who contribute little or nothing to actually effecting the lives of the dibbled and their families. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/standard-business-glossary
 
 
 Standard Business Glossary
 
 This is related to my earlier post regarding establishing "Trusted Information" as an objective of the Recovery Act eco-system. In "Trusted Information" the goals are strategy, governance, roadmaps and infrastructure. One excellent comment focused on "meaning" and I have to say I agree 100% that the development of a data model or schema in support of the ARRA requirements needs to have the proper context and meaning for the data elements. One approach for addressing the need for appropriate meaning within any eco-system is to have a consistent and well defined business glossary. A business glossary provides definitions and context for any data element within a schema. So in the scenario we are discussing in this exchange a core set of essential data elements needs delineation for the semantic usage and meaning which then permits the actual definition to be established. The foundation for this level of accuracy in building a data model is called <a class="external-link" href="http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/ips/products/masterdata/">Master Data Management</a> and with the proper implementation of a solution that defines the core of MDM it is a natural process to implement a <a class="external-link" href="http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/infosphere/business-glossary/">business glossary</a>. 
 
 It is critical that a solution dealing with data on the scale required for supporting ARRA should have all the proper underlying technology to ensure that the meaning of the data can be recognized and properly utilized. This brings context to the analytics and real value to the metrics that have been collected. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-managed-spreadsheets-for-local-agency-reporting
 
 
 Use managed spreadsheets for local agency reporting
 
 Allow agencies to report information in the data environment they know best (ie. Excel spreadsheets). When they are received at Recovery.gov they will be processed through a spreadsheet management system. This is a standard off-the-shelf software product, with proven scalability across large complex organisations and easily capable of handling millions of spreadsheets. 
 The processing of the spreadsheet information into a data warehouse provides many benefits: 
 Complete data transparency , visibility and analysis right down to a cell level - across successive spreadsheet versions and between the submissions of different agencies. 
 Fraud and error detection - robust central monitoring ensures that anomalies and improper behaviour can be rapidly highlighted without significant manual effort. 
 High reporting flexibility to address the wide variety of requirements that will exist on day 1 but can adapt as new needs develop. This applies to both reporting into Recovery.gov and reporting from Recovery.gov to its stakeholders 
 
 
 All new data collection processes start with spreadsheets because they are low cost, familiar, flexible and fast. Migration to more formal applications requires time, for design, specification, build, rollout and user training. Recovery is too urgent to go through such normal IT cycles. 
 Using spreadsheet management as a data collection and warehousing prcess enjoys the advantage that all the required user knowledge already exists in the wide population and no new technology needs to be externally deployed. 
 The technology for data extraction, validation, warehousing and reporting on 'who, what, why and where' only needs to be present in the central locations ensuring a rapid, easy deployment. Dashboard information of all critical information and performane measures can be broadcast through many existing technologies including web pages. Agencies can get on with the business of leading recovery, not stuck in IT projects. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-annual-imagery-to-track-success-iftn
 
 
 Use Annual Imagery to Track Success (IFTN)
 
 Everyone in the world understands before and after images. Elected office holders, citizens, agencies and news media can drown in a sea of tabular information, but a picture is worth a thousand words in any language. A national program of annual imagery, combined with geospatial data about where stimulus funds are spent, could clearly show progress over time in the rebuilding of our national infrastructure. And it would allow citizens to check on the progress of local projects. 
 
 For example, recovery funds were provided to the government of Hometown, USA for a new bridge. Two years later, new imagery shows the completed bridge and taxpayers from around the nation, and not just from Hometown, can see the benefits of their investment. Or they might spot a place where no work has been done. If Little Red Elementary School, in Hometown, gets recovery funds to install solar panels, the next year's imagery could reveal those panels up on the roof. If the state gets recovery funds to widen two miles of highway that lead to Hometown, a future aerial photo shows the highway has been widened, and folks can measure the new lanes. 
 
 The state of Arkansas has demonstrated how regular acquired imagery can quickly show a project's progress. Images over time from the area of Little Rock redeveloped for the Clinton Presidential Library offer a prime example. The images are part of a slide show presentation found at <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_qVct_RjdCU"> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_qVct_RjdCU </a>. 
 
 And, while no shovels are involved, the nation is ready right now to start collecting imagery each year. The states, federal government, and private sector have come together to develop a national program, "Imagery for the Nation. It simply needs to be funded (See <a href="http://www.nsgic.org/hottopics/imageryforthenation.cfm"> http://www.nsgic.org/hottopics/imageryforthenation.cfm </a>). 
 
 Finally, imagery collected on an annual cycle has inherent value beyond the tracking of recovery investments. It can be used for public, private and non-profit decision making, to help save lives, to showcase economic development opportunities, and to record the history of our land. 
 
 Everyone in the world understands before and after images. 
 A national program of annual imagery, combined with geospatial data about where stimulus funds are spent, could clearly show progress over time in the rebuilding of our national infrastructure. 
 Ripple effects are countless, many of which we likely do not know 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/normalize-first-collect-second-analyze-last
 
 
 Normalize First, Collect Second, Analyze Last
 
 Placing all the emphasis on the final results or analysis puts the cart before the horse. It is important, yes. However, the KISS principle says first create a normalized set of data collection schema. This task is not a simple one, but it is doable. Once all the possible raw data forms are known, then and only then can the next task of analyzing the data begin. 
 First, normalize the outputs required to insure that one can verify the requisite data is being collected. This is where analysis comes in, it does define required data elements. Just don't get carried away by this part, focus on the data to support reasonable analysis, not far end results like images, charts, etc., etc..Next, create the supporting inbound data form(s), schema(s) and organization(s from available data as well as "new" needed data.. 
 Then, and only then, can standardization of data per entity, program or project, be mandated. Care should be taken to insure onerous system re-writes are not imposed upon any public or private entity. In other words, find out what data they have available and make rational decisions when adding new data requirements. 
 Once that is done, data can be collected. Once the data is collected, the "what, when, why and how" the collected data is analyzed will be addressed by public and private entities around the world, albeit some correctly and some not. 
 
 
 To build any structure requires a solid foundation. For the "transparency and accountability" structure the foundation is data. If the data is not solid, any insuing output will adhere to the well known Garbage In, Garbage Out data syndrome. The data must be normalized to a concrete core, not a flimsy set of hundreds or thousands of bamboozling data sticks. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/scorecards-to-offer-insight-into-current-performance-on-stimulus-portfolio
 
 
 Scorecards to Offer Insight into Current Performance on Stimulus Portfolio
 
 ActiveStrategy StimulusScorecard - already on the GSA schedule for the federal government - is a low-cost, web-based performance management system designed to allow ARRA recipients to effectively and proactively monitor and manage their projects and programs. It gives officials one centralized view of the performance of stimulus-funded projects. The system makes real-time data available so governments can identify the preemptive action needed to prevent delays, waste, fraud, and abuse that could undermine program performance and public confidence. 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://forms.activestrategy.com/go/activestrategy/nationaldialogue_stimulus_webinar">View a demo of the system during the second half of this recording.</a> 
 The system requires virtually no IT support and can be online and ready to go in days. There is no software to buy or install - governments and agencies pay for the system only for as long as it is needed as part of the management and administrative costs of their stimulus projects. 
 
 ActiveStrategy StimulusScorecard is important because it allows federal agency, state, city, and local officials to monitor and manage: 
 How efficiently and effectively the dollars are being spent in real time (i.e. are the programs on-time, on-budget, and on-quality from their original plan) How much impact there is on economic recovery (i.e. what long-term benefits are being realized in job creation, productivity, energy efficiency, etc) Who is responsible for projects and what updates are they providing on performance How many projects and how many dollars have been awarded, spent, obligated, or are pending 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/dont-buy-more-solutions-use-what-you-already-own
 
 
 Don't buy more solutions...use what you already own!
 
 Instead of going out and spending more money on a solution or capability, the government should look at what it has already invested in and use it to do collection of data, storage, deliver analytics with a geospatial component (so people can search from a map of their area) and communicate it out to the public. 
 To give you an example, 90% of the US Federal government already own some super powerful technologies from Microsoft (including SharePoint and PerformancePoint and SQL) that are built with connectors specifically designed to connect too and draw data from almost any systems (Microsoft and non), provide tha ability to aggregate the data, display it on a map and filter that view, analyze the information by simple tables or full blown OLAP cubing, make it searchable and give users the ability to do further self-driven analysis using tools they all already know how to use, namely Excel with charts and tables! Even better this is all delivered through just a browser...so no version challenges or even the need for Excel on the local machine. 
 In addition it is already built with an inherent security model that provides the collection and dissemination of the data without exposing the underlying financial systems and doesn't necessarily need a data staging area (but can accommodate one if necessary). 
 I just want the government to examine the really powerful capabilities they all already have, and give the data to us Citizens in a format we are used to working with, and is secure! 
 
 It is already part of the government technology portfolio so it won't cost more money, and everyone knows how to use a web-browser and look at Excel charts! It is easy. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/contractor-tracking-and-oversight
 
 
 Contractor Tracking and Oversight
 
 Implementing a universal system to track all federal employees (civil servants and contractors) for time and activity planning and tracking. The system already exists! By simply requiring contractor employees to utilize the time and attendance software already in place, the government would be able to count, account for, and tie to budget their contractor community as they currently do for their civil servants. 
 
 The government currently has no way to accurately quantify how many contractors are employed, what programs, projects, and activities they are working on, and to tie them to their budgets. Instead of establishing separate data collection, analysis,and reporting solutions, extending the use of software already implemented ensures success in addressing the contractor oversight issue. The added benefit is timely and accurate actual, certified, validated data instead of estimated, calculated, or survey-generated information. Since this data would be updated at least every federal pay period, it would be available real time, unlike contractor invoice timeframes requiring reconciliation or solving disputes. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/successful-stimulus-oversight-using-project-portfolio-management-software
 
 
 Successful Stimulus Oversight Using Project Portfolio Management Software
 
 Use web-based, automated project portfolio management (PPM) tools to accurately track the status of stimulus projects, the funds expended, the jobs created, and progress against any other relevant performance metrics.
 
 
 
 PPM tools ensure maximum transparency and accountability as well as data accuracy and consistency by federating data collection and automating data validation as part of the overall management process. 
 PPM tools have a proven track record and can successfully: 
 Provide for central collection of all data elements required by the Recovery Act; Provide an easy way to collect the required information directly from the recipients of the stimulus funds, and integrate data reporting into the day-to-day activities of the stimulus projects. Provide for accurate data visualization of national, state, regional, and local stimulus-related information through the effective use of graphs, charts, and tables; and Provide the ability to implement and integrate new data reporting requirements as needed. 
 PPM tools will provide Recovery.gov with a "shovel-ready" solution to the enormous challenge of providing the public with accurate, consistent, and complete data related to the spending of stimulus funds. Additionally, these automated tools will ensure an unprecedented degree of accuracy and transparency, providing a model for the improvement of other government database systems. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/location-schema-enables-data-analysis-and-visualization
 
 
 Location Schema- Enables Data Analysis and Visualization 
 
 The National States Geographic Information Council (NSGIC) applauds the focus in this Dialogue on using data visualization tools such as maps -- and the GIS tools that make geospatial data useful to the public as maps and other information. 
 
 We offer a few thoughts on how to make sure that we make the best use of geospatial data and GIS to ensure the citizens have complete information on where and how their dollars are spent. The most critical step that must be taken is to provide a standard, nationally consistent approach to tracking where stimulus funds are spent. 
 
 We suggest a hierarchy of commonly used geospatial location attributes that can be used to mark discrete points, collections of points, or areas in which funds are spent: 
 Latitude/Longitude -- For spending tied to a particular spot or point feature Mileposts (Linear Referencing) -- For spending on transportation infrastructure Address -- For spending tied to a particular building Unique Parcel Identification Number -- For spending tied to a particular property Census Blocks/Block Groups/Tracts -- For spending in a geographic area Zip Code -- For spending in a slightly larger geographic area Legislative District (State or Congressional) -- For spending in an even larger geographic area City/County/State -- For spending in general within a defined administrative boundary 
 Establishing a common 'location schema' is critical. 
 
 A common location schema, understood and used by all reporting ARRA funds; will be required in order to obtain the integration with the visualization tools proposed. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/focus-on-accessibility-not-normalization
 
 
 Focus on Accessibility NOT Normalization
 
 Thousands of federal and state agencies will be responsible for dispersing funding and tracking progress. It is completely infeasible to have one party responsible for the aggregation and normalization of all the data. As <a class="external-link" href="open-data-will-enable-democratized-analysis-and-accountability">this idea on open data</a> so clearly articulates, the fastest and most effective way to achieve high quality analysis is to open the data. The combination and normalization of data from multiple sources will be a significant portion of the analysis - but that should be left to the public. As the author of the open data idea suggests, agencies should focus on simply exposing the data. 
 
 Standard development and data normalization take years. The technology for agency use should focus on creating availability through REST endpoints that can be quickly added to live systems. The federal government should catalogue all the available services, but avoid being distracted by any attempt to define a consolidated and complete datamodel for all the data. Rich internet applications and mashups will be the fastest and most effective means to explore, mine, and combine data from the multiple sources. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/incorporate-social-enablement-in-transparency-paradigm
 
 
 Incorporate Social Enablement in Transparency Paradigm
 
 Social Enablement consists of architecting, developing, and ultimately using a network of transparency services along with developing the social context within government to encourage its maximum utilization. Social Enablement as a strategic element assures that transparency gains sufficient reach and capacity to be meaningful to citizens of all interests and degrees of technical savvy. 
 At its core is the assertion that answering only the questions asked does not effect real transparency. Real transparency arises when two parties commit to not only answer what's asked but also offer what information one party feels the other might like or need to know. 
 A Network of Transparency Services 
 Open, accessible data fulfills only part of the transparency imperative. "Pullable" data (if I may coin the term for this context) serves only the portion of the population who have the technical know-how to discover, manipulate, and interpret what can be fairly sophisticated information AND the impetus to do so - which comes at an appreciable cost of personal time and effort. Certainly others will take note of what such members of the technorati achieve and conclude, but even then the transparency effect is limited to the intersection of one group's technical competence and the other's mutual interest in the areas to which it's been applied. When you consider the diversity of interests to be addressed by the ARRA monies, it becomes apparent that the "long tail" of citizenry, the many who have a stake in some local interest but not the know-how to answer their own questions from the raw data provided, go underserved. Social Enablement recognizes instead the need for a network of transparency services that facilitate the push and pull of data between the government and the citizenry along with the means for a self-serving community to bridge gaps wherein the information is not pushed and the interested party's lacks the ability to pull it . 
 "Pulled" Transparency Services 
 Pulled transparency services include all the means by which data is made available to citizens. Many of the ideas already posted on this site address very specific means, whether through mash-ups, open API's, adoption of particular standards, etc., by which pulled services can be enabled. They deserve examination in their own right. That we do not discuss them here should not imply a lesser importance. They are an equal necessity to effecting real transparency through Social Enablement. 
 Pulled services empower those with the interest and know-how to answer questions about ARRA expenditures that they formulate themselves. It provides tremendous insight to both the technically literate who interact with the data directly as well as members of their particularly audience or others who share a common interest in the ARRA expenditure examined. 
 "Pushed" Transparency Services 
 Pushed transparency services are the means by which government publishes information and analysis regarding ARRA activities. Pushed transparency reaches those members of the citizenry without the know-how or impetus to formulate questions about ARRA data, those with the impetus but not the know-how whose interests are not shared by someone who does possess the know-how, or those who may be unaware of their stake in an ARRA project. Our concept of social enablement considers this population likely to dramatically outnumber those served directly by pulled transparency services; they are essentially the Federal CIO Vivek Kundra recently asserted that the government needs to promote access to services where and when citizens spend their time online. The same can be said of transparency services - it is incumbent on the government to place ARRA data and news where and when the citizens are best apt to discover it. 
 As part of Social Enablement, we advocate strategically identifying and incorporating those channels to which a particular stakeholder community pays attention then publishing information and analysis along those channels. Channels to be considered should include popular social networks, micro-blogging, online news outlets, and blogs as well as traditional print or television media. Each should be employed where relevant and accessible to a particular project's stakeholder community. Kundra declared, "Access to government services should be just another component in a seamless digital experience." We couldn't agree more, nor could the point be more relevant that in the government's strategic positioning of ARRA disclosures. 
 Community Services 
 Community transparency services provide the means for those with interest and impetus but not know-how to connect with those with the know-how who might bridge the cap between the former citizen's question and the answer in data made accessible by the government. Citizens with highly focused interests, particularly those related to small or local projects may find a shortage of others with similar interest and the know-how to derive answers. A community forum over which such citizens could solicit assistance from other citizens who may not share the interest but are willing to lend their technical ability to find the other answers would ensure that transparency has a vehicle for reaching even the most distant corners of the population. A model for empowering such community can be inferred from the development communities many software vendors use to connect users who identify new functionality with developers who can implement it. 
 Community transparency services also carry the potential for a beneficial side effect: we just may find that marrying one citizen's need for technical know-how to another citizen's ability also further fosters community among American citizens with diverse interests and perspectives. 
 The Context for Network Utilization 
 All of the above amounts to one tremendous vehicle for transparency in America but ultimately idles and goes nowhere without able and willing drivers to pilot it. Social Enablement calls not just for the mechanisms to push and pull transparency but also for developing the context that encourages their utilization. It has been offered lately that to derive greatest benefit from collaborative technologies organizations need evolve from "need to know" to "need to share" postures regarding information. Though spoken simply, those words have deep implications for the sort of cultural changes necessary to fulfill them. 
 Understanding the citizenry, too, as a community of stakeholders in ARRA projects is a concept worth exploring. Developing skills in stakeholder assessment could help shape the context for identifying the audience for an ARRA project and the means to reach them with transparency services. 
 Nudging government employees so akin to compartmentalization toward better openness and communication demands strategic consideration and plain old work. Those to whom the means for Social Enablement will be available will need to understand how, when, and why to use them. In short, education and training in the nuances of social media and other tools must be undertaken. 
 
 
 Effecting real and apparent transparency across the breadth of a diverse citizenry requires more than mere access to data. We must ascribe equal importance to developing, supporting, and using social mechanisms for maintaining the flow of that data between its producers and consumers. Unless the means and the social context are both developed, transparency will stagnate and under serve the citizen. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/preferred-system-for-managing-diverse-types-and-sources-of-data
 
 
 Preferred system for managing diverse types and sources of data.
 
 What is one system that has worked well for you in managing diverse types and sources of data? Why? 
 What: A metadata repository is the most flexible, scalable, and useful tool I've found for working with diverse types and sources of data. You can build a metadata repository on top of an XML, RDF, or SQL DBMS, and other technologies as well. 
 Why: With a metadata repository - the model is the application. The model is immediately usable as an application to collect, present, or process data. With a SQL DBMS, database, and application, the conceputal model, logical model, physical schema, database, and application code are separate from each other and much harder to change when needed. In a metadata repository, these things are all typically built in or fully interoperable. 
 In general, SQL is good for closed-world views of unchanging things for limited numbers of viewpoints, while metadata repositories are good for open-world views of evolving, adaptive, continuously changing things for unlimited numbers of customized user viewpoints. 
 Using the Object Management Group's (OMG) Model-driven architecture (MDA) approach for building and managing architectures (i.e., ontologies, viewpoints, knowledge-bases) of any type, you apply a four-layer metamodeling structure, with M3 being the foundation and M0 being the top. 
 With an open (i.e., non-proprietary) MDA Four Layer metamodeling approach, you can model anything and everything in the universe and beyond - any system not just software. For example, using such an open metadata repository, we could build a National Terminology for ARRA, having a unifying Management Life Cycle process to which other processes and life cycles are mapped, with consistent sets of management controls throughout the unifying life cycle, to which other processes' and applications' management controls, such as performance metrics, are mapped . 
 M3 contains the object model (made available by the physical model/metadata repository software and hardware), where all modeled "things" are given their core inherited attributes and their core reusable "types" of relationships. M2 contains the basic set of things, also called classes or types, that are named, related, and described in the domain being modeled. This is where you build all models (using the M3 object and relation types) and instances that are used as references (e.g, Dictionaries, Taxonomies such as the OMB Reference Models, Thesaurus, Lookup Tables, Master Data, Master Metadata) by all other models and instances. You also built your integrating models at this level, e.g., a model for integrating M1 layer database designs across various M1 application designs and process models. M1 contains the diverse models of viewpoints in the community of users (i.e., concept maps, data models, process models, business rules, forms, reports, business and geographic visualizations, ontologies as knowledge models and architectures, axiologies as value-chain models as in value-added economic models, database structures, software applications, etc.), built by referring (e.g., via automated lookup) to the M2 references. M0 contains the diverse data of the community of users, accessed for input, transformation, or output, through the viewpoint designs modeled at the M1 level, and populated where possible with M2 lookup values, e.g., the equipment data-values (selected from an M2 lookup) in the equipment form (M1). 
 
 
 An open metadata repository is a quantum leap forward in world modeling and data management over SQL. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/this-discussion-is-a-a-waste-of-money-and-effort
 
 
 This "discussion" is a a waste of money and effort
 
 Today government agencies not only have official Web sites but also sponsor moderated chats, blogs et cetera. Sophisticated online marketing campaigns target citizens with messages from the government. Looking beyond the usual focus on interfaces, operations, and procedures, you should analyze what happens when officially sanctioned material is parodied and recontextualized by users. 
 
 This is happening here right now. Why did you ever come up with this silly crowdsourcing thing at this moment on this very subject in this extremely important U.S. Recovery program? It's simpley ridiculous, a waste of money and effort, and it is surely dragging down the whole initiative. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/a-centralized-online-procurement-system-for-all-gov-business-opportunities
 
 
 A centralized online procurement system for all gov business opportunities
 
 There should be a online procurement system for all government business opportunities. Federal, State &amp; Local- grants, bids, RFPs and award data all tracked on a public procurement system. All agencies would be required to post their bids and RFPs in this system and the process could be tracked from grant to award. All of these 80,000+ Federal, state and local agencies post this data in 80,000 different places. Their own websites, local business journals, newspapers, city council meeting notes etc... It's not centralized anywhere and therefore not transparent, but also limits competition in some cases to only those people/companies that can dig through all that data and identify these opportunities. 
 
 All of these 80,000+ Federal, state and local agencies post this data
in 80,000 different places. Their own websites, local business
journals, newspapers, city council meeting notes etc... It's not
centralized anywhere and therefore not transparent, but also limits
competition in some cases to only those people/companies that can dig
through all that data and identify these opportunities. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/technological-neutrality
 
 
 Technological Neutrality
 
 Any technology chosen by the Administration to help Recovery.gov should be accomplished in a technologically neutral way - that is, no one type of IT business model / development model should be chosen by virtue of the model alone. It guarantees little. Keeping choice based on the merits / goal of effectively communicating Recovery opportunities must remain paramount. Technology on its own is only a means of getting there. 
 
 When you make a choice for only one type of model - let's say, open source - you are necessarily cutting out other options which may do the job as well or better. Looking at the goal - not the "rocket ship" to get you there - will enable the widest possible choice, and the best bang-for-buck for administrators and constituents. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/audit-trail
 
 
 audit trail
 
 To avoid fraud and establish accountability in data reporting, some kind of audit trail capability must be implemented. 
 
 To avoid fraud and implement accountability, it is important to have information to have a complete history of changes to the data including who updated data and what changes were made. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/pre-built-solution-to-track-and-report-on-recovery-act-funds
 
 
 Pre-Built Solution to Track and Report on Recovery Act Funds
 
 IBM Recovery Act Performance Solution 
 IBM has built two versions of the IBM Recovery Act Performance Solution: one for US Federal agencies dispersing funds and one for US State &amp; Local Governments who are receiving funds. 
 The Federal version of the IBM Recovery Act Performance Solution is a pre-built solution designed to help Federal agencies comply with Sections 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 of the OMB Guidance issued on 4/3. The solution consists of: 
 1. A web-based data entry interface powered by IBM Cognos TM1 
 2. A central data repository for capturing fund and program information 
 3. A pre-built dashboard for deep analysis and visualization of funds and programs powered by IBM Cognos 8.4 
 4. Pre-built web-based data entry interface &amp; reports for: 
 Master Communications 
 Funding Notification Report 
 Weekly Financial &amp; Activity report 
 5. Services &amp; training to ensure rapid deployment. 
 The State/Local version of the IBM Recovery Act Performance Solution is a pre-built solution designed to help Prime Recipients comply with Sections 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 of the OMB Guidance issued on 4/3. The solution consists of: 
 1. A web-based data entry interface powered by IBM Cognos TM1 
 2. A data repository for capturing sub recipients, funds data, and program information including key metrics such as jobs created/retained. 
 3. A pre-built dashboard for deep analysis and visualization of funds and programs powered by IBM Cognos 8.4 
 4. Pre-built reports and data extracts for recipient reporting as mandated. 
 5. Services &amp; training to ensure rapid deployment. 
 
 Gives Federal and state/local government agencies a pre-built solution to begin tracking and reporting on Recovery Act funds. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/give-bloggers-and-others-embeddable-widgets-to-detail-the-effort
 
 
 Give bloggers and others embeddable widgets to detail the effort
 
 Allow site owners and bloggers to grab &lt;script> embeddable widgets from recovery.gov and paste them in their own blog. These widgets would go a long way in getting the public virally connected to the effort. 
 
 It moves the content into blogs and other websites and into the public sphere. You don't have to go to recovery.gov to get the lowdown. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/off-the-shelf-tools-and-open-source-for-atom-feeds-rest-services-in-weeks
 
 
 Off-the shelf tools and open-source for ATOM feeds + REST services in weeks
 
 Currently the agency reporting is provided using Excel/CSV/PDF. Existing web data scraping/harvesting technology can be utilized to aggregate this data and provide it as REST/ATOM services. Kapow Technologies (kapowtech.com) Mashup Server products can provide the aggregation and programmatic access for structured and unstructured data. The existing agency data sources can be collected automatically (using "robots as Kapow defines them) and be transformed for aggregation creating new abstractions. The Data Collection product can be used to collect and transform data available on standard agency.gov/Recovery URLs or from MAX. This places minimum burden along the tiers of recipients along the value chain. 
 Hybrid collection scenarios can also be possible which combine different types of structured and unstructured data sources. You can harvest page content (agency reports) along with data files. The content then can be rewritten to a MySQL database to be repurposed; or to excel files. The Harvested data can be transformed (ETL) and written to a database, or published as Feeds and Services (REST, WADL, RSS, ATOM) using the Web 2.0 edition product. These feeds and services can also be mashed up using mashup platforms (Serena, BEA Ensembles/pages, IBM Mashup Center/QEDWiki). They can also be utilized by custom applications with toolkits for AJAX/PHP/Ruby, Eclipse, Netbeans, Visual Studio. The Portal Content edition product can be used to clip Recovery act content from agency sites (each agency's page is a portlet) into a single Web presence (Recovery.gov/agencypages). 
 Additional data transformation capabilities can be delivered by combining with open-source data integration products such as Mural, Jitterbit, Talend, Apataros, Kettle, CloverETL, etc. 
 There are also commercial tools such as Informatica, CastIron, etc.. 
 IBM's Mashup Center can also be explored for similar functionality. I expect Kapow to be less costly and more functional. 
 
 Recovery.gov has the potential to become a catalyst for adoption of the next generation of the Web. However, there are expectations of reporting and transparency as quickly as the money is being distributed. 
 
 We can deliver data feeds and web services now while working towards a Semantic Web/Linked Open Data implementation and web APIs. 
 
 Using enterprise-tested tools with low-complexity implementations such as Kapow can open the gates for public consumption. Ultimately it would also support the long-term collection and aggregation of data from providers of a wide-range of capabilities as part of the Data Portal+Edge reporting system. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/individualized-reporting-and-tailored-interface
 
 
 Individualized Reporting and Tailored Interface
 
 Migrate recovery.gov into a true portal structure, with information resources identified as such, and allow users to create their own interface to these resources, available either via the web or handheld device. Users should be able to create profiles containing which information resources they wish to see, and manipulate those profiles to show those resources in the manner best suited to each user. 
 
 As information produced by agencies, states OMB, and fund recipients continues to grow, centrally organizing, managing and presenting that information to a disparate user base will become more and more challenging and time consuming. Developing and implementing standards such as XML for some of the data to be collated helps, but when there exists so much data in other formats from other sources (RSS feeds, excel reporting sheets, structured databases, web page updates, etc.), consumers of that data are faced with a nightmare of finding, and then staying abreast of changes to particular information that interests them. 
 Treating each area of information as a source of data, and then allowing users to be able to select which sources they wish to see, and the manner in which they see them, will engage more users and offer them more meaningful use of the data that interests them. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-a-master-data-management-schema-for-use-by-govt-agencies
 
 
 Create a Master Data Management schema for use by govt. agencies
 
 IBM has a solution called Master Data Management that would provide significant savings, improved performance, and better accuracy of data that agencies and departments in the Federal government need to service citizens as well as employees. Master Data describes physical entities in the real world - such as people, organizations, products, assets and accounts. It is kept by organizations and used to control much of their operation. 
 Master data is the information an organization stores about the key elements (or business entities) that define its operation. Examples are: 
 
 Information about people and organizations such as employees, suppliers, partners and departments Information about "things" such as products, assets, services, materials, stock information about contracts and agreements such as bank accounts, insurance policies, credit agreements, which explain who is using (or is entitled) to use what. 
 Associated with these Master Data entities are relationships between business entities, hierarchical structures to show how they are organized and classified along with histories of interaction such as audit trails. 
 Master data is high value information that an organization uses repeatedly across many business processes and lines of businesses (LOBs). For these to operate efficiently, this master data must be accurate and consistent to ensure good decisions. Unfortunately in many organizations, master data is fragmented across many applications, with many inconsistent copies and no plan to improve the situation. 
 Customers attempting to adopt a Services oriented Architecture (SOA) are having problems supporting simple services such as getCustomerDetails() because their customer data is so scattered and inconsistent that it is not possible to locate and reconcile all of the copies of a customer record on the fly. The master data needs to be corrected at source. Distributing bad data to more people only makes matters worse . 
 
 With the implementation of MDM, there would be significant savings in the number of databases being used and the processes of having to sync them up continuously. The accuracy of the data in these disparate databases would be much improved, and more real time decisions could be made with valid data. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-of-geographic-information-systems-gis
 
 
 Use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
 
 Use of GIS to track where recovery funds are being spent, and analize where the funding is truly needed. At its core, GIS is inherently used to make decisions in regards to Geography and the information behind those locations. 
 Governments of all sizes (City, County, State, and Federal) currently use GIS for many of their daily operations. This infomration needs to be captured at the local level, and moved "upstream" to County levels, and then State, then Federal, to have the most current, accurate information to be used for the analysis behind where the funds need to be spent. 
 
 
 Maps, and mapping systems are well known interfaces to the public. Google Earth, Google Maps, Microsoft Virtual Earth, Mapquest, etc... are all applications that the public has become accustomed to using. By using a true Geographic Information System with appropriate analysis capabilities, and feeding this information into such vehicles for public consumption would be a win-win. 
 While I'm not a software vendor, just a local government GIS guy, I see that the ESRI products handle the "heavy GIS analysis" side of the puzzle, and can interact seamlessly with those tools the public is currently taking advantage of - such as Google Earth, Google Maps, etc... 
 Analysis is the key, and having current information from the local levels fed up through the system to be used for this is imperative. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/interesting-cloud-approach-to-track-stimulus-funds-fast
 
 
 Interesting Cloud Approach to Track Stimulus Funds FAST
 
 Saw this post yesterday about a solution that helps agencies track, manage and oversee stimulus funds and can launch in 30 days because it is based upon Salesforce.com cloud computing solution. Gives Program Managers and Inspector Generals all they need to manage and monitor programs both at top level and down to the detail. Perhaps the government should explore flexible IT for mission critical programs that need to launch fast. 
 <a href="http://gcn.com/articles/2009/04/29/acumen-offers-stimulus-tracker.aspx">http://gcn.com/articles/2009/04/29/acumen-offers-stimulus-tracker.aspx</a> 
 Link to video demo of product here... 
 <a href="http://www.acumensolutions.com/START.asp">http://www.acumensolutions.com/START.asp</a> 
 
 
 Solves the issue of how an Agency can spend fast on shovel ready projects yet not lose the ability to track manage and oversee where the funds go. Seems compliant with all the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and OMB mandates. Having been built on a flexible platform enables easy updates should the regs change in the future. Sounds interesting. 
 In terms of security risk, it is mostly public information anyway (funding allocations) and the risks of losing track of the money seem higher than the risk of data in the cloud. Thoughts? 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/cloud-computing-using-a-pool-of-dedicated-resources
 
 
 CLOUD COMPUTING - using a pool of dedicated resources
 
 Cloud computing is cheaper than the legacy model of IT without reducing or impacting uptime, and provides a more efficient computing platform on a watt for computing capacity basis. 
 
 Recovery.gov should be a poster child of the modern IT solution. This would include 100% virtualized computing resources that are out sourced to an industry leader in providing commercial companies "cloud" services. This will allow a cost competitive solution based solely on the solution and not on the acquisition, initial, support, and other elements inherent in a asset ownership model - this amounts to up to a 50% reduction in operating costs including the initial startup. The cloud has the added benefit in increasing the platform availability, and allow flexible and right sizing of the solution without buying or decommission hardware assets. 
 
 A Cloud solution has the added benefit in being GREEN - as there is an estimated 60% reduction in hardware costs and power usage. The net effect of this is a reduction in the carbon footprint and power consumed in a datacenter. 
 
 Solution should require a dedicated pool of resources. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/easy-access-to-and-categorization-of-stimulus-funding
 
 
 Easy access to and categorization of stimulus funding
 
 It would be nice if the site provides easy access to the expenditures by categories and sub-categories (e.g., Infrastructure and within it road construction, road repairs, bridge construction/repairs, school construction/repairs, drinking water supply/storage etc.), homeland security, education, healthcare, small business creation/incentives, housing, environment improvements etc. If one wants to know the expenditures by state, city/town, municipality etc. then that should be possible. If possible data such as which company was awarded the contract, their physical location, size (annual turnover/employee size) would be useful for citizens to determine that there was no collution between contract givers and those who received the contracts. 
 
 To be truly transparent and easy to track and understand. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/jobs
 
 
 jobs
 
 why dont the president make the states show want companys geting the jobs so people like me could no were to apply for the job i dont no were to look like the new constrution projects 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/can-we-name-names
 
 
 Can we name names?
 
 For each recipient of $$$, could you show a name of an actual individual person who has ultimate authority in seeing that the $$$ is spent as planned? 
 
 I've been to the recovery.gov sites of the govt agencies and states. And I leave not feeling I learned anything that gives me confort that someone is on the hook. Even if it's just psychological, I think that if the reporting tool gave me the name of the person that is responsible for seeing that the funds appropriated are being spent as planned, I would have more confidence in it. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/arra-recovery-decision-support-system
 
 
 ARRA(Recovery) Decision Support System
 
 I recommend a user-frienddly ARRA DSS (Decision Support System) for ARRA data and business analysis and data integrity. I have already built a "PROTOTYPE" system using data from <a href="http://www.recovery.gov">www.recovery.gov</a> and USAspending.gov. This is based on Vapsoft software which I designed. Very user-friendly and end-user computing tools. I would like to offer a demo to your team. My power-point-based material was submitted to Mr. Dan Germain, Project Diretor. Also some of output reports were published in my website: <a href="http://www.nonprofitsdata.com/1J_ARRA.htm">http://www.nonprofitsdata.com/1J_ARRA.htm</a>. Please review this site. These types of reports will be generated online by the ARRA end-users. I would like to present a demo via WexEx or remote access method. I would like to build a "PROTOTYPE" application free of charge if you provide Excel-based ARRA data. Vapsoft is my copyrighted software and very powerful end-user computing software tool. This software will be excellent solutions for ARRA decision support process. I will send my Powerpoint materials to you if I have your email addresses. I will present a demo to you any time when you are available. My contact info: David Yoo, Vapsoft <a href="mailto:dcyoo@msn.com">dcyoo@msn.com</a> 402-312-9740. I would like to hear from you. Thank you 
 
 I would like to contribute a little to President Obama's efforts for IT technology transformation. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/systems-to-gather-data
 
 
 Systems to gather data.
 
 There are multiple systems currently in use that gather lots of data. Rather than creating new systems, lets improve the systems we have to ensure they are "user friendly", intuitive, have edit checks to minimize erroneous or conflicting data, ensure that mandatory fields are mandatory; minimize data collection that is not needed and provides clear instruction, on-line, to the user. Another system is not needed; better current systems are needed. When improving the current systems, the reporting and searching capability needs to be improved as well. 
 
 Existing systems capture significant amounts of data; however, they are not intuitive nor are they "user friendly". This applies to their search and reporting capability as well, which is of particular interest to the public. Before investing in new systems, determine if existing systems can be improved. If not, get rid of the existing system and substitute a new, intuitive, user friendly system. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/multi-view-system-which-leverages-all-data
 
 
 Multi-view system which leverages all data
 
 There are at least three categories of user involved in this system. 
 1) The entity that receives the funds 
 2) The entity that awards the funds 
 3) The American citizen 
 Any system implemented should have three "views" available, one which displays the data relevant to each category. As <a href="http://www.recovery.gov">www.recovery.gov</a> has been up and running for a while, it may be relevant to qualify the users as they enter that site as falling into one of those three categories, and track the usage of that site by category. 
 If you look at Facebook (which is the successful massively multiplayer web application of the moment), it does four things well. 
 1) Searching (keyword based auto complete based on user defined relevance, e.g. "friends" in Facebook) 
 2) Interactivity (ability for user to contribute to dialogue at anytime, and for dialogue to be seen for a while, it makes the user feel important, whether anyone actually reads the post or not) 
 3) Open Format (third party applications which allow the community itself to define what works and what does not, which raises replay value). 
 4) SIMPLICITY (the core application does not delve beyond the four or five basic things that it does well, and has enhanced the simplicity of those core functions over time). 
 This system should focus on core elements as well, if its intended audience is the American people. 
 
 If we truly intend to service the American people with a solution, it should innovate what has become standard in web interfacing. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/organize-participation-through-coalescent-bubbling
 
 
 Organize Participation Through Coalescent Bubbling
 
 My approach is to divide the "transparency" issue into two parts. 
 1) Sunlight . This involves a commitment to better enabling public reading 
of existing data. There's recently been lots of progress and that front. It means making information available in multiple
forms... pre-refined visualizations, raw formats that others can mashup
and refine, or some kind of semi-raw, and a standardized XML-ish
format that's easier to rewrap. But it raises the problem of which
sets of data are the most reliable and useful, which "answer" is most actionable, and which publication standard should be formally selected. 
 2) Participation . This involves a commitment to allowing public contributions to the dialogue. It's the holy grail of online democracy, and seems to be one of the driving motivations of this "National Dialogue"site. "We" don't know how to organize the dialogue yet, but we know that the Web offers a tremendous opportunity to build great tools. 
 My recommended solution is a strategy called coalescent bubbling . It goes far beyond the tag-linking and Digg-like bubbling approach
they're encouraging here, by separating the nomination phase from the
voting phase, and then using interactive ballots with a ranked-choice voting system to build consensus outcomes. The upshot of coalescent bubbling is essentially a visualization of an Instant Runoff Vote. 
 See an example at <a class="external-link" href="http://www.choiceranker.com/election.php?eid=6">http://www.choiceranker.com/election.php?eid=6</a> 
 
 If Govt 2.0 -styled mechanisms such as Online Town Halls are going to scale to serve the demands of large and actively-engaged populations, the new venues need to built around structures that can simultaneously capture and vet new ideas, and bubble up the good ones. 
 A system (like the one on this site) designed to float popular ideas "up," based on a range of "Like" vs "Dislike" responses, is far from optimal. Popular ideas typically get checked out first, and then bubble up even faster. Voters tend to ignore potentially valuable latecomer contributions, leaving them ever farther behind. 
 Such Town Halls also need ways to channel "swarms" (online groups of voters and contributors organized around a single candidate or issue) without degrading or silencing them. People want to compel politicians and government officials to listen to their concerns and to respond to them (which is one of the reasons "Joe the Plumber" touched such a big nerve on the right). A legitimate online Town Hall worthy of the name would provide a reliable way for citizens to do so. But the officials also need ways to say, politely but truthfully, "I already answered that question at www.answered.here." 
 The next generation of ranked choice voting systems offers many advantages in solving these problems. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/free-or-low-cost-healthcare
 
 
 Free or low cost healthcare?
 
 Why aren't you making it a priority to control the costs before you talk about the working people (who pay for it all by the way) and then talk about giving it when absolutly needed only...not free and all consuming like medicade and medicare are now. I have insurance through my husband and we pay out the hind end for it and keep paying. 
 
 Important because we don't want to pay more, we are paying enough now and it keeps goping up. Why should I pay more so that someone who isn't working and many who won't work have it at no cost....the hospitals are run amuck with taking advantage of this and the government just ignores the taxpaying working man. Not right!!!! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/3-hour-daily-career-talk-radio-program-for-u-s-job-seekers
 
 
 3-hour Daily Career Talk Radio Program for U. S. Job Seekers
 
 Below is an audio proposal I made on the radio to the Governor of Michigan, as well as to all governors and mayors to propose a state funded three hour daily edition of "Career Talk With Pat." Rather than type a lot of words, the proposal below is in audio version and only takes 11 minutes to listen to. It is very specific. The written transcript is attached and my website and LinkedIn profile can be accessed below. Please take a few minutes and listen and I will be available to discuss in detail. All contact information is in the website below: 
 
 You may listen to the 11 minute proposal here: <a href="http://lsc.audioacrobat.com/download/171d404d-432d-1e17-0ab2-4b9174d9edc4.mp3"> http://lsc.audioacrobat.com/download/171d404d-432d-1e17-0ab2-4b9174d9edc4.mp3 </a> 
 
 Business Website: <a href="http://www.themeehangroup.com"> http://www.themeehangroup.com </a> 
 
 Radio Station Website: <a href="http://internetvoicesradio.com/Arch-PatMeehan.htm">http://internetvoicesradio.com/Arch-PatMeehan.htm</a> 
 
 LinkedIn Profile: <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/in/meehangroup">http://www.linkedin.com/in/meehangroup</a> 
 
 A full Written Transcript can be sent in PDF format on request. 
 
 
 This program offers easy access to all job seekers immediately and without standing in line. This is a government sponsored program that is available to 100% of American Citizens and Residents through the touch of their computer keyboard for job training and development. 
 We have already scheduled a meeting with Kentucky and are close to scheduling one with Michigan. We would like this program to be nationwide. 
 Patrick Meehan: 812-422-1105 
 100% of U. S. residents will have total computer access to this program via the power of PIVTR and Internet Radio. Archived replays of " Career Talk With Pat" will be available for all U. S. residents and Workforce Development offices, for immediate, 24/7 on-demand listening and career training. Toll-free studio call in lines will be provided for U. S. residents, employers and other listeners to ask questions, or to state comments and concerns. Small Businesses will be allocated 30 second spots for advertising funded by The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Free MP3 downloads of every show will be available for all U. S. residents to download onto their iPods, i-phones or MP3 players. 
 This program offers easy access to all job seekers immediately and without standing in line. This is a government sponsored program that is available to 100% of American Citizens and Residents through the touch of their computer keyboard. 
 We have already scheduled a meeting with Kentucky and close to scheduling one with Michigan. We would like this program to be nationwide. 
 Patrick Meehan: 812-422-1105 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recovery-gov-needs-extensive-reporting-on-job-creation-and-job-quality
 
 
 Recovery.gov needs extensive reporting on job creation AND job quality
 
 The key goal of the Recovery Act is job creation, but the Act also seeks to build the foundation for future economic growth. This means that stimulus spending should foster the creation of high-quality rather than low-wage, substandard positions. 
 To be able to judge both the overall success of the Act in reaching this goal and the performance of each entity receiving stimulus funding, Recovery.gov has to provide good employer-specific information on the number AND quality of the jobs being created. As the Coalition for an Accountable Recovery has <a class="external-link" href="http://www.ombwatch.org/files/budget/CAR_Comments_on_OMB_Memo_M-09-15.pdf">recommended</a>, this means requiring each Recovery Act contractor or subcontractor (at both the federal and the state level) to report on the hours of work performed by workers as well as the total payroll. Info on health insurance coverage should also be included. 
 
 
 Every company receiving Recovery Act contracts should be held to a high level of accountability, to make sure the money is being spent in a way that promotes the goals of the Act. By using total hours and total payroll dollars, the privacy of individual employees can be protected. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/sustainability-management-how-the-shift-to-green-can-drive-efficiencies
 
 
 Sustainability Management: How the Shift to Green Can Drive Efficiencies
 
 Leading organizations world-wide are turning to sustainability management to examine the implications of their business decisions upon the environment, reduce costs associated with energy consumption and improve processes especially in the areas of compliance, risk management and customer recruitment. The inclusion of sustainability metrics into an organization's overall strategy allows them to comply with existing regulations, improve performance while incorporating sustainability practices into everyday business. 
 Actuate for Sustainability Management is an integrated performance management and reporting solution that measures and tracks green metrics and KPIs for governments worldwide. 
<a href="http://www.actuate.com/images/popupimages/screenshot_personalizedcontent_large.jpg" target="_new"> </a>
 
<a href="http://www.actuate.com/images/popupimages/screenshot_strategy-map_large.jpg" target="_new"> </a>
 
<a href="http://www.actuate.com/images/popupimages/screenshot_dashboard_large.jpg" target="_new"> </a>
 
 
 The cornerstone of Actuate for Sustainability Management is the Actuate Performancesoft Suite, an extensive Performance Management application, including a framework of sustainability metrics, green initiative KPIs, process improvement guidelines and best practices designed to help organizations enhance accountability, reduce costs, increase long term profitability and improve stakeholder value. 
 Features and Benefits of Sustainability Management: 
 Sustainability Management offers the following Features and Benefits: - Track and measure key sustainability metrics using industry recommended methodologies and Performance Management frameworks - Reduce costs in every area of the enterprise, especially around energy and waste reduction and data centers - Identify, assess, and respond to social, economic, and environmental risks - Gain performance insight to build best practices - Drive transparency and accountability at all levels - Align resources to increase collaboration and drive sustainable growth - Report to stakeholders around sustainable business practices - Leverage over 100 proven sustainability measures within the Performancesoft environment - Collaborate across regulators, consumers and non-governmental organizations 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/middleware-operated-by-recovery-gov-that-can-be-used-to-accept-varying-data
 
 
 Middleware operated by Recovery.gov that can be used to accept varying data
 
 Technology like Informatica's PowerCenter enable organizations to rapidly access structured or unstructured data in a codeless environment and to cleanse, transform and deliver that data in any format and latency required. The source to target relationship can be one to many or many to one. At the heart of PowerCenter is a metadata repository which enables organizations to access full data lineage including where the data is, what the data is and when it was last changed. 
 Informatica PowerCenter is designed for the enterprise and can scale to process massive amounts of data. For example PowerCenter is supporting customers processing up to 300 million transactions a day while accessing data from hundreds of data sources. 
 Informatica's technology provides the ability to rapidly onboard and mange thousands of organizations or partners where data is exchange. 
 Bottom line, the technology exist today to provide the "Data Plumbing" necessary to provide you quality data when you need it, where you need it and in the format you need it 
 
 
 Having a robust enterprise class data services layer is critical to the success of your oversite and transparancy goals. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/middleware-virtual-linked-data
 
 
 Middleware: Virtual Linked Data
 
 For middleware for recovery.gov to produce linked data, there are basically two architectures. You either copy/map/transform each data source into one big triplestore, or you map dynamically on request. The latter you can call virtual linked data -- there are no linked data files actually on a disk, but every time a request is made, either a fetch of data or a remote query, the request is transformed into SQL queries on the underlying databases. 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/diagrams/sw-arch-merged.png"> </a> diagram 
 
 The Virtual Linked Data approach means that no copies of the data are made. You save disk space. You don't have to worry about the linked data getting out of step with the original data. 
 
 It also means that the underlying databases run unmodified. They, and the systems and the people which manage them, can continue without having to change. 
 
 Downsides may be the increased load on the original servers, so for high volume you may want to go with the triplestore approach. 
 
There are a number of open source products which do this mapping. <a class="external-link" href="http://www4.wiwiss.fu-berlin.de/bizer/d2r-server/">D2RServer</a>
 was one of the first: it works with a mapping file, and has a program to generate an initial mapping file directly from the database schema. It provides both virtual linked data and a SPARQL service. 
 
<a class="external-link" href="http://triplify.org/Overview">Triplify</a>
 is another. This has a language in which you write the template SQL query which will be made when each sort of request comes in. Triplyfy configuration files can be shared, hacked and remixed, by those using similar database schemas. 
 
 That's just two example, apologies for many omissions! 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/incentivize-employees-to-save-money
 
 
 Incentivize Employees to Save Money
 
 In any large organization (public or private) it is only natural for people to maximize the spending of their budgets. This implicitly justifies the budget. There is no incentive to save money. At the end of the fiscal year everyone rushes about to spend spend spend. This happens in both the private and public sectors although it's probably worse in the public sector. The idea is to incentivize employees to save money but simply rewarding them with some percentage or flat fee award of the money they return to the treasury or their various agencies. 
 
 Has the potential to save many millions of dollars, in a simple effective way. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/standards-always-win-an-enterprise-architecture-pattern-for-transparency
 
 
 Standards Always Win: An Enterprise Architecture Pattern for Transparency
 
 To create a enterprise architecture pattern based upon well established industry best practices for the sharing of enterprise data across functional and organizational boundaries. 
 
 Other industries have achieved, with great success, the standards process required to share fiscal data across enterprise boundaries. We have no need to reinvent the wheel with Recovery.Gov. 
 
We need to simply leverage the work already in place for the <a class="external-link" href="http://www.oagi.org">Open Applications Group</a>, <a class="external-link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UN/EDIFACT">UN/EDIFACT</a> and <a class="external-link" href="http://xbrl.org/">XBRL</a>
 working groups. 
 
 A significant amount of the data we require to provide true transparency lies deep within the Enterprise Resource Management systems deployed across State, Local and Federal agencies. To truly address the core issues of transparency we need to provide a standards based infrastructure to the seamless exchange fiscal data between all stakeholders. 
 
 To achieve this level of transparency we simply need to embrace and adhere to a small number of open standards. Foremost among them being the use of XBRL. 
 
 The diagram below shows a notional architecture for exchanging enterprise resource data across open internet standards in use by global supply chains today. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I'm not proposing a radical new infrastructure for transparency. Instead, I'm suggesting we simply leverage the current established standards in use for global commerce today. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/program-management-and-transparency-of-reinvestment-dollars
 
 
 Program Management and Transparency of Reinvestment Dollars
 
 CapEx Manager is a market tested solutions that will allow the Federal Government to reach its goal of full transparency and accountability as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is carried out across the county. The system is particularly suited to the management of capital infrastructure programs. However, not matter what the expenditure may be targeted for, the software will allow each participating organization to effectively manage day-to-day operations throughout their entire Program Lifecycle. Data flows seamlessly between each phase of the program, from bid preparation, to procurement, through project management, to project closeout. The system enables issues to be managed and resolved as they surface, information to be viewed, and costs and schedules to be controlled. Through the course of each project, the public entity responsible for the project, the federal government, and citizens will have real-time views on how their project is progressing, where issues exist and what is being done to make certain the project is being delivered in an appropriate manner. 
 
 This type of solution is extremely important. As identified by the act itself, there is a requirement for full transparency of all expenditures of dollars that fund this initiative. Taxpayers must be able to know how, when, and where there tax dollars are being spent. Those spending the dollars must also have the tools to adequately manage the projects being funded. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/transparency-oversite-employment
 
 
 transparency/oversite employment
 
 Myself, along with many other partially disabled veterans or citizens who are unable to work in an office invironment and concerned about the environment, want and need jobs from home. We are able to help in many ways by tele-commute. My idea is to reach out to those concerned citizens, give them jobs in monitoring and oversite of the funds that are available through this recovery act. 
 
 It is important that these monies are not wasted, that people get jobs of importance so that we may not be a burden to but an asset for the economy and its recovery. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/interactive-charts-and-data
 
 
 interactive charts and data
 
 Let the visitors to the site interact with the data by creating their own charts and graphs of the live data. Let them decide what to plot on a map, line chart or bar graph. 
 
 This makes the visitor engage more directly with the information and find that which is relevant to their interests. By making the data feel more live, it would encourage people to return to the site. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/transparency-and-openness-through-secure-real-time-enterprise-mashups
 
 
 Transparency and Openness through Secure, Real-Time Enterprise Mashups
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/twitter
 
 
 Twitter
 
 
 NASA/JPL uses Twitter.... here's how (click on following link to be linked to their Twitter pages); 
 http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/news/features.cfm?feature=2080] 
 Feg Gov is using Twitter now..... Clearly, Twitter offers the opportunity to provide Real-Time information dissemination (transparency in Real-Time) starting immediately, now, today and in Real-Time, at very, very low cost (Twitter is FREE, cost would be data-entry/management)!!!! 
 
 Here's a partial NASA Twitter list; 
 The following is a list of JPL-related missions and projects and links to their Twitter pages. Cassini on Twitter: <a href="http://twitter.com/CassiniSaturn">http://twitter.com/CassiniSaturn</a> Earth Vital Signs on Twitter: <a href="http://twitter.com/EarthVitalSigns">http://twitter.com/EarthVitalSigns</a> Kepler on Twitter: <a href="http://twitter.com/NASAKepler">http://twitter.com/NASAKepler</a> Mars Phoenix on Twitter: <a href="http://twitter.com/MarsPhoenix">http://twitter.com/MarsPhoenix</a> Mars Exploration Rovers on Twitter:<a href="http://twitter.com/MarsRovers">http://twitter.com/MarsRovers</a> Mars Science Lab on Twitter: <a href="http://twitter.com/MarsScienceLab">http://twitter.com/MarsScienceLab</a> PlanetQuest on Twitter: <a href="http://twitter.com/PlanetQuest">http://twitter.com/PlanetQuest</a> For more social-networking sites with JPL content, visit<a href="http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/news/features.cfm?feature=2002">http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/news/features.cfm?feature=2002</a> . A full list of all NASA-related social-networking sites can be found at <a href="http://www.nasa.gov/collaborate/index.html">http://www.nasa.gov/collaborate/index.html</a> .

 
 Twitter offers the opportunity to provide Real-Time information dissemination (transparency in Real-Time) starting immediately, now, today and in Real-Time, at very, very low cost (Twitter is FREE, cost would be data-entry/management)!!!! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/interoperable-data-enabling-system-of-systems
 
 
 Interoperable data enabling "System of Systems"
 
 Utilize the tremendous work done by OASIS, NOAA, NIEM and other organizations that have driven interoperable data standards to widespread use. Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) is an alerting standard that allows for a broad range of use for informing WHAT happened, WHERE it happened, WHEN it happened, and WHO reported it. Recovery.gov could immediately start putting out location specific information about job creation, contract awards, and a host of other real time events. This could be done using CAP today, and quickly augmented with additional, standardized, structured transactions that would allow multiple sytems to consume and utilize the information. 
 
 The DATA will be around for 100 years! The tools won't last 10 years. Make sure the base data is in a form that is reusable, consumable, understandable, and not applications specific. This will allow a broad base of tools to work with the data for many different purposes. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/hotline-and-case-referral-solutions
 
 
 Hotline and Case Referral Solutions
 
 The Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board Staff is considering all options for a very user-friendly and responsive hotline and referral system. Can you please provide solution ideas for the following: 
 a. Hotline - Our website's hotline function needs to be staffed with competent operatives and be available to the general public as soon as possible. Due to the anticipated amount of intake and exposure, the speed and quality of response will be critical performance indicators. 
 b. Referrals - We will deploy a robust database/information management solution and be able to refer matters deemed important to the appropriate Inspector General (and/or other responsible office) and then have a follow-up capability. 
 
 
 
 We are looking for the best solutions available to provide the public the best open and transparent oversight of Recovery Act funds. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/transparency-lessons-from-new-york-city
 
 
 Transparency lessons from New York City
 
 The taxpayers are in need of clear, concise and accurate reporting. One of the leading web sites for reporting stimulus dollars is hosted by the City of New York. This web site called <a class="external-link" href="http://www.nyc.gov/html/ops/nycstim/html/tracker/infrastructure.shtml">NYCStat</a> gives taxpayers a clear view into what is being spent, how much is being spent and where it is being spent. You can drill in to a program and clearly see what the programs status is at any point in time. This is a simple way to let taxpayers see projects that impact their local and identify project status. In addition, another way for a taxpayer get access to project details and status is to allow them to drill into a state, then in to the county or city. There are numerous ways to integrate geospatial data with project/program data. Incorporating geospatial data provides a rich interface to program and project data. 
 
 
 This allows the taxpayer to have centralized access to detail program and project within their local. The taxpayer is interested in rich content, simple terminology that is free from government jargon, and clear concise information. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/geographically-remote-data-collection-using-ibm-cognos-tm1
 
 
 Geographically-Remote Data Collection Using IBM/Cognos TM1
 
 Perhaps the simplest way to collect spreadsheet data from remote locations is to use IBM/Cognos TM1. 
 The proposed system would consist of a collection of cooperating TM1 servers at Federal, State, Local and Tribal locations. 
 The clients can submit data either with a desktop Excel add-in or directly over the web. In the case, that the user prefers the Excel-addin, after the data has been incorporated into the worksheet, the user simply presses the function key, F9, to transmit the data to the designated server. No additional protocols are necessary. 
 Furthermore, TM1 has been in use by worldwide organizations for budgeting and reporting for approximately two decades. The solution has been tested for years 
 In addition, TM1 communicates readily with most other systems including the IBM Cognos Platform that supports both Financial Performance Management and Business Intelligence. 
 
 
 TM1 is perhaps the most elegant solution for the types of financial spreadsheets that regularly appear on the Recovery.gov site. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/ensure-the-recovery-reporting-solution-achieves-agency-mission-objectives
 
 
 Ensure the Recovery reporting solution achieves Agency mission objectives
 
 To be most effective, Federal Agencies need a quick and easy reporting solution to interface with and be compliant with the requirements for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), while continuing to serve their important missions. Based on experience working with every Federal Agency and leveraging the expertise across all Agencies, transforming the ARRA package reporting and data collection processes will be a real "Recovery" challenge for these individual Agencies. A change to reporting requirements will force a ripple effect within the Agencies themselves. They must adjust process, data and report formats, and review cycles, which may disrupt their mission focus. Therefore, the "Recovery" solution must ensure that Agencies be able to integrate with OMB and meet the necessary requirements through the use of technology that coordinates with existing Agency frameworks and meets Agencies' IT modernization objectives. 
 To provide a fast, efficient, cost-effective, scalable, and easy-to-maintain reporting solution, the Recovery Team may want to consider the following. 
 1. Be the catalyst for Agency change: Consider solutions that focus on clean source data and the use of advanced data aggregation techniques (such as mashups) to produce open services. When incorporated into pre-existing data stores and workflow solutions throughout the Agencies (such as Intranet Quorum), these open services integrate nicely into the social networking and workflow environment. Agencies will have an opportunity to easily leverage the data availability and open service approach to transform and modernize internal and external business processes. 
 2. Learn from constituents: The social networking innovations are evolutions of consumer market tools. The "Recovery" reporting solution should leverage the benefits of these innovations, especially constituent interactions. The real difference will be to leverage a social networking platform that is not constrained by proprietary application programming interfaces (APIs). The platform should be an extensible cost-effective social media platform. Using an open standard such as OpenSocial powered by an open source implementation (Apache Shindig) can eliminate licensing restrictions and cost issues encountered in the past. 
 3. Leverage Open Source: Open Source software can provide better quality, higher reliability, more flexibility, lower cost, and an end to vendor lock-in, which makes the government dependent on a vendor for products and services, and unable to use another product without substantial costs. The Open Source business model is a way of solving customer problems in a very effective way, both from a control and an economic perspective. Open Source harnesses the power of distributed peer review and transparency of process. Many Agencies are pursuing this philosophy for standard infrastructure products. The Recovery team should consider the use of Open Source where a strong central manager is leading the Open Source product effort and a large community exists. 
 4. Allow multiple data-input formats: While many Agencies will adjust their reporting interfaces and technical capabilities, the reporting function within Recovery.gov should be highly flexible. The Recovery team should consider the use of anything from RSS feeds (which exist in multiple Agencies today and are produced using open standards) to file uploads. At a minimum, the data-input should be in an electronic format that can be read and ingested for quick monitoring and problem identification. Ideally, the solution would consume services generated by mashups using clean data as described above. OMB may configure the mashup service to throw flags against thresholds and route the services using the same standard workflow tools. This process also improves monitoring of objectives, plans, and actual data to create a robust performance monitoring tool. 
 
 
 Federal Agencies need a quick and easy means to interface with and be compliant with the Stimulus requirements, while serving their current mission. The combination of open standards, mashups, clean data, and existing workflow tools marries innovation with a fast and efficient deployment--without integrating expansive COTS packages with lengthy configuration timelines. This solution offers robust monitoring to detect and correct improper behavior. Lastly, it is easy to administer, requires minimal customization, and is highly scalable for Agency modernization efforts. 
 Our experience with Federal Agencies has taught us to transform and modernize solutions that will add value to the mission of that Agency. This solution is not only critical to each individual Agency, but essential to the mission of our Federal Government and the ultimate success of our country's economic recovery. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/measure-what-matters-including-roi
 
 
 Measure What Matters Including ROI
 
 There's a great quote attributed to Jack Welch - "Too often we measure everything and understand nothing." And that is, in large part, due to not having identified in advance what we want to know. That should be the starting point. That is, the "what" and not the "how". Of course, we won't identify all questions in advance. The process will evolve and, just as managers' information appetites grew from spreadsheet software, so will what we want to know. 
 I have no doubt using existing technologies (such as OLAP, ROLAP or other forms of nifty data storage/access linking to dashboards) can be deployed now. Let's do that with a view to migrating to phase 2 and beyond. But let's remember, whether it's MicroStrategy, MS Stimulus 360 or one of the other BI products advertised in this dialogue, these are only tools. And a tool in the hands of a craftsman will produce different results than if wielded by Moe, Larry or Curley. 
 In the opening video, Ed DeSeve states Recovery.org was created "to openly show how, when and where recovery funds are spent." That's good as far as it goes. Of greater importance to me, however, is knowing if expenditures are producing intended results. Put simply, I want to see the ROI. You? 
 More than anything, we need a mindset of measuring what matters. That includes taking action based on what the measures tell us. Reporting is only valuable if it's used, right? So, as part of our objective, let's create information that is actionable. 
 Except with my vote every few years, I won't be able to take action. Neither will you. So it's important that those that can take action do. That's should be part of "accountability". 
 Will there be holding of feet to the fire. Not necessarily. The 1000+ page stimulus bill, which created the Recovery Accountability And Transparency Board, contains a provision giving the Board the authority to ask "that an inspector general conduct or REFRAIN (capitalization added) from conducting an audit or investigation." 
 Let's keep this dialogue going beyond today's deadline. Maybe like me, you would appreciate having more time to digest the great ideas and comments that have been provided. A lot of thought has gone into this effort. How about a few more days to let it incubate? 
 
 
 Because "if you can't measure it, you can't manage it" and "what gets measured, gets done. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/expose-data-in-existing-systems-link-them-encourage-their-use
 
 
 Expose data in existing systems, link them, encourage their use
 
 Many agencies already have systems to manage how they spend funds. For example, most state transportation departments use a common system from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) to manage estimating, bidding, and progress tracking and payments for infrastructure construction projects. Many similar systems have been internally developed or are commercially available, and are used to similar purpose by all kinds of agencies, so a lot of stimulus funds are going to be managed using these systems. 
 
First, ask those system vendors and users to provide a way to publish at least some important information from them to websites open to the public. Some of the systems can already do this, and it's a reasonable feature to ask of all of them. 
 
Second, link the systems by having them automatically "register" the availability of information on new projects with some central clearinghouse. Keep this extremely simple: something like filling out a simple form with a small amount of important information (project description, budget, schedule, agency) and a link to the public web site with deeper data. This clearinghouse will serve as a publicly available directory of available information and a basic search engine. 
 
Finally, encourage all stimulus fund recipients to use such a system. 
 
 This effort can begin quickly, fed by systems already in use, and grow in completeness incrementally with low cost. As it becomes more widespread, more public associations and commercial vendors will offer more kinds of solutions, making it easier and less expensive for smaller agencies to participate. At first the detailed information would be presented in different ways by different systems, but over time they would likely converge on more common formats and presentation. 
 
Once the central clearinghouse begins to be used other entities (such as watchdog groups and search engines) can use it as a starting point for them to collect and sift through the available detailed data, and extract and present information gleaned by doing so. 
 
The public will have faster and fuller access to data on how funds are being spent, anyone with a good idea on using that data can do so even in ways we can't now anticipate, this can start almost immediately at low cost, and it has the potential to grow organically to cover an ever greater percentage of stimulus projects. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/end-to-end-process-and-tools-ensure-transparency-and-quality
 
 
 End-to-End Process and Tools Ensure Transparency and Quality
 
 
 
 Adopt and end-to-end process and set of software tools to support and automate that process to enable predictability, visibility, and transparency on IT projects. Improved quality (functionality/performance, cost, and schedule) will result. 
 
 In opening this National Dialogue, Mr. Devaney and Mr.
DeSeve talk about ensuring transparency and accountability in the dialogue and
in the acquisition of information technology. We've also heard of the goal of
transparent sourcing and creation of IT systems. "Robust monitoring"
Mr. DeSeve calls it. These ideas are in line with commercial best practices:
implement processes and tools so that program mangers have real visibility of
current status. I have noticed that not only do predictability and effective
program communication increase, but quality does as well. Delivered systems
meet real citizen needs. 
 
 We can incorporate the American public in the building of our
systems. This is consistent with the <a class="external-link" href="http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/TransparencyandOpenGovernment/">President's open government memorandum</a>.
User feedback on the needs of systems that pay social security checks, deliver
veteran benefits, and offer electronic health alerts will make those systems
better. A change management process and change tools will make this work.
 Requirements and testing tools will ensure that the systems meet real stakeholder
needs and avoid tax-dollar waste. 
 
 I work for the software division of IBM,
and based on my experience I would like to propose that these programs adopt an
end-to-end process including software tools to make the creation and delivery
of IT systems transparent. Enterprise
architecture and program planning tools are critical for system design and laying
out an organization's IT topology. The heavy lifting occurs when commercial
parts are sourced or software is written. This is where the bulk of a system's
requirements are met, and where transparency and predictability goals often
fall short. Citizens, program managers, and the development team can all
participate in the optimal construction of an IT asset. 
 
 Software tools are an important part of that end-to-end process. Tools
will automate many aspects of the process, such as analyzing the impact of
change, regression testing, and building and deploying the software system.
Tools will also ensure conformance to the design and deployment process, and
enable visibility and accountability without placing a burden of reporting on
the part of the doers. Status and progress are based on executable
functionality and meaningful metrics derived from federal IT assets themselves including requirements implemented, outstanding
defects, and tests passed. Insight is not gained from subjective status
reports and documents created solely for the purpose of reporting. 
 
 My part of IBM develops tools and best practices for
teams to use. I invite further dialogue on how we can achieve these objectives on a project basis as well as looking at an agency's entire IT portfolio. The <a class="external-link" href="http://www-01.ibm.com/software/info/developer/solutions/gov/index.jsp">IBM
Rational government web page</a> offers more depth on these concepts. Articles at the bottom of the page demonstrate some of the ways program managers can improve the economics behind software development. 
 
 I am happy to help and welcome further contact and dialogue. 
 
 Scott Frohman 
 sfrohman@us.ibm.com 
 IBM Federal Software 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/palantir-technology-to-empower-people-to-investigate-and-prevent-fraud
 
 
 Palantir: Technology to Empower people to Investigate and Prevent Fraud
 
 Please see <a href="http://www.palantirtech.com/videos/stimulus">this video Demonstration of our idea in practice</a>! 
 Investigators on the Recovery Act Accountability and Transparency Board (RAT Board) will need to draw on vast quantities of data while performing their duties to investigate and prevent fraud, waste and abuse in stimulus spending. Since human resources are always limited it is important to empower analysts and investigators so that they can be effective as possible. <a href="http://www.palantirtech.com">Palantir</a> enables analysts to rapidly visualize and understand the non-obvious relationships present in data to create a coherent and accurate view of the world. 
 Palantir has addressed the significant technology challenges that must be addressed before analysis can take place. The stimulus data exists in a wide variety of locations and formats - both structured (database, xml, spreadsheets) and unstructured (free text) - and this data is arriving in real time. Any meaningful analysis will take place in an integrated environment and allow investigators with different areas of specialization to collaborate in this constantly evolving space. Palantir enables new data to be incorporated and integrated rapidly, without requiring all the data formats to be specified up front. (Videos of our engineers talking about the technical challenges we've solved in detail, and how we solved them <a href="http://www.palantirtech.com/government/videos/whitevideos">can be found by following this link</a>) 
 Palantir has proven its ability to surmount these challenges (and very challenging security considerations, too) by empowering analysts in the allied intelligence community. Our software is available commercially, off the shelf, and it can be deployed very quickly. 
 To demonstrate the speed with which Palantir can be deployed for operational use and ingest new data sources we analyzed existing federal contract data obtained from <a href="http://usaspending.gov">usaspending.gov</a> and risk-relevant public records data provided by <a href="http://www.rdc.com">Regulatory Data Corp</a>. RDC provided us with risk-coded, entity extracted data - this makes it possible to rapidly identify the risk-characteristics of individuals and corporations. We created a video of our analysis. During our analysis we identified contractors that had billed for duplicate transactions as well as awards to contractors that committed fraud/violated FCPA prior to winning contracts. 
 Please see <a href="http://www.palantirtech.com/videos/stimulus">this video Demonstration of our idea in practice</a>! 
 
 Only a human can identify fraud, waste and abuse. Automated checks and machine heuristics are useful, but fraudsters learn rapidly how to get around such systems. The expert inspectors on the RAT board must have the best technology at their fingertips so that they can be as effective as possible. 
 An audit trail and knowledge management is crucial so that RAT board itself can be accountable to the public. To this end, Palantir tracks the steps and actions of every analyst using it. 
 Palantir is focused on applying technology to enable transparency in the context of <a href="http://www.palantirtech.com/government/regulation">regulation and oversight</a> and we are excited to be participating in the town hall. 
 Interested parties may also want to take a look at some other examples of our platform in action. 
 
 Palantir being used to analyze publicly available county sale records to find mortgage fraud in Houston: <a href="http://www.palantirtech.com/government/videos/mortgage-fraud">video</a>
 Palantir analyzing mortgage backed securities and the other data sets relevant to the TARP: <a href="http://www.palantirtech.com/government/videos/tarp">video</a> 
 Palantir finding money laundering and smurfing in online payment datasets: <a href="http://www.palantirtech.com/government/analysis-blog/anti-fraud-2"> video</a> 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/subject-1
 
 
 subject
 
 I feel that the President or his advisors should make the recovery document more clarified to appeal to all people. 
 
 Because everyone do not read on an university level, but they are still interested on knowing what they are reading. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/dollar-dashboard
 
 
 Dollar Dashboard
 
 To keep folks informed as to progress .. present the Dollar numbers in the simplest manner and use a little Dashboard eye candy .. there is an excellent example at <a href="http://now.sprint.com/widget/" target="_blank">http://now.sprint.com/widget/</a> 
 
 Information Dashboards are good for folk who like to see indicators that things are moving .. having one for Dollars invested is model proven by all the Fortune 500 execs who say they want one for their own organizations 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/stakeholder-mapping
 
 
 Stakeholder mapping
 
 The idea is to implement a stakeholder mapping system with the currently available CMS components (taxonomy, CCK, and views, etc.) in the <a class="external-link" href="http://recovery.gov">recovery.gov</a> website so that the same raw data source can be viewed and analyzed from the perspectives of different stakeholders. 
 
 The stakeholder theory is a theory of organizational management and business ethics that addresses morals and values in managing an organization. ... i t attempts to address the "Principle of Who or What Really Counts." (<a class="external-link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stakeholder_theory">wikipedia</a>) . 
 For example, giant corporations, independent business consultants and non-profit organizations are different stakeholders that all have legitimate stakes in the recovery program. Accountability and transparency should depend on the stakes each of them holds and how they are related to other stakeholders. A pragmatic <a class="external-link" href="http://www.google.com/search?q=stakeholder+mapping">stakeholder mapping</a> system could help people get a better view of the complex network of stakeholders so that they can make their own judgement. 
 I am sure there are many management science experts here who are familiar with stakeholder analysis so I would be more than happy to hear about their ideas. Since the <a class="external-link" href="../search?SearchableText=stakeholder">search result</a> of the keyword "stakeholder" on this site does not show similar ideas, I submit it as a new idea for you to make comments and suggestions. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/using-balanced-scorecards-for-performance-based-analytics
 
 
 Using balanced scorecards for performance-based analytics
 
 One of the key imperatives of the Recovery Act is for Federal agencies to take concrete, proactive steps to ensure recipients of stimulus funds are spending the money responsibly, and in a manner that benefits taxpayers. With $787 billion in taxpayers' dollars flowing into the economy in a short period of time, the potential for fraud, waste, and abuse is elevated. It is important for the government to leverage analytic techniques that will allow officials to exercise reasonable oversight without getting bogged down in vast quantities of spending data. 
 The "Balanced Scorecard" is an example of one of these analytic techniques. A balanced scorecard is a performance management tool used for aligning strategic objectives to operational metrics. A balanced scorecard allows senior executives to rapidly identify areas of risk during execution of their strategic plan by identifying specific operational areas that are performing outside of established norms and parameters. 
 In the context of Recovery.gov, balanced scorecards can be used to provide a snapshot of prime recipient performance against desired program / economic outcomes. Each prime recipient can be scored in "green - yellow - red" fashion against a set of key performance indicators (KPI). KPIs are measures used to help an enterprise define and evaluate how successful it is. 
 In the Recovery.gov scenario, KPIs could be established for and mapped to Recovery Act Accountability Objectives established by law and policy. For example, one of the Recovery Act Accountability Objectives defined in OMB Memorandum 09-15 is entitled "Program Outcomes and Economic Outcomes Achieved." Since a key economic outcome of the ARRA is job creation, a KPI could be established to measure cost per job creation. Any grant program or recipient with an excessive cost per job creation could be identified through a balanced scorecard, and could then receive the appropriate level of management and oversight. 
 Within Recovery.gov, balanced scorecards could be created to evaluate agency, program, and prime recipient performance. One could also create a balanced scorecard to look at stimulus performance on a per-state basis, to ensure fair distribution and use of stimulus funds on a geographic basis. Of course, once scorecard KPIs are established, data collection protocols might need to be tweaked to ensure sufficient data are being collected to support the analytics implemented by the scorecard. 
 There are numerous technologies, both commercial and open source, that can be used to implement the balanced scorecard features described in this article. For example, Unisys has developed a Recovery Act reporting solution that implements four different types of "accountability scorecards:" Recipient scorecard, program scorecard, state scorecard, and agency scorecard. The Unisys Recovery Act reporting solution was developed using various open source technologies, and is designed to integrate well with Government web hosting environments. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/managing-the-data-using-xam
 
 
 Managing the Data Using XAM
 
 The amount of information (data) that will need to be managed, transferred between various applications &amp; platforms, archived, queried, etc. should be based on standards such as the SNIA's eXtensible access method (XAM) <a href="http://www.snia.org/forums/xam">http://www.snia.org/forums/xam</a>. SNIA's XAM provides a standard way for providing the below solutions: 
 A standardized approach to Electronic Health Records The ability to move user created data across various social media sites such as Facebook Enabling federated searches across Web-based digital libraries Metadata organization to improve the quality of results in an e-Discovery case Improve how national governments and libraries will preserve data for future generations. 
 
 Using a standard for managing the data will provide choices of applications to use to manage the data, interoperability between vendors (non vendor lockin), ease of migration data between different vendors, compliance, etc. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/power-up-this-site
 
 
 Power up this site!
 
 This site ("National Dialogue") is seriously lagging! Registration took more than 30 seconds after submitting .. typically ten or more seconds from mouse click to page load? 
 
 People with good ideas may give up if the site is slow! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/vapsoft-arra-decision-support-system
 
 
 Vapsoft ARRA Decision Support System
 
 I am re-submittingn because of the moderation as follows; 
 Vapsoft-based ARRA Decision Support System 
 Vapsoft-based Decision Support System is recommended for business and data analysis solutions for ARRA. Vapsoft is an user computing software for data analysis and business intelligence. I would like to offer "PROTOTYPE" information solutions for ARRA free of charge. I have already developed a "Prototype" Vapsoft application for ARRA using data from <a href="http://www.recovery.gov/"> www.recovery.gov </a> , <a href="http://www.usaspending.gov/"> www.usaspending.gov </a>, and websites of federal government departments. I am ready for a demo. The output reports of this application were published in my website at <a href="http://www.nonprofitsdata.com/1J_ARRA.htm"> http://www.nonprofitsdata.com/1J_ARRA.htm </a> This "Prototype" system contains ARRA Summary (26 tables -include data from <a href="http://www.usaspending.gov/"> www.usaspending.gov </a>), ARRA Division A (31 tables), and ARRA Division B (1 table). The proposal for "Prototype" development is recommended as follows; 
 "Prototype" ARRA Decision Support System 
 Ø Develop Microsoft Excel-based formatted uniformed ARRA Reporting procedures. 
 Ø Collect ARRA data from the Excel-based reporting sources and create and update ARRA DSS data bases. 
 Ø Apply Vapsoft for ARRA business and data analysis. 
 Ø If "Prototype" is successful, move on to a permanent solutions (ARRA Data Warehouse Solutions) 
 ARRA D/W-based Decision Support System 
 Ø Develop ARRA data model using information collected from "Prototype" DSS. 
 Ø Develop ARRA transaction application to collect and operate uniformed ARRA reporting data. 
 Ø ARRA reporting agencies must enter their reporting data directly to the ARRA transaction system. 
 Ø Develop ARRA Data Warehouse extracting ARRA transaction data daily. 
 Ø Apply Vapsoft and other business analysis tools for business and data analysis. 
 DSS Model: ARRA DSS Data Collection 
 "Prototype"ARRA DSS Data Collection 
 Ø Collect data from Excel data format reporting 
 Ø Create "Prototype" data bases using batch report data 
 ARRA Transaction Data Collection 
 Collect data from ARRA Transaction data bases by daily batch updates 
 DSS Model: ARRA DSS Data 
 Ø Create one ARRA DSS Data Base which contains all ARRA tables and views. 
 Ø Create ARRA summary tables combining all reporting data 
 Ø Create detail tables for each Title (Division A and Division B). 
 Ø Title II (2 tables-Commerce and Justice), Title VIII (3 tables - Labor, HHS, Education), Title XII (2 tables - Transportation, HUD) 
 Ø Total 19 tables in Division A, Total 7 tables in Division B 
 DSS Model: ARRA DSS Tables - Division A 
 Table 1 -TITLE I--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD /DRUG AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 2 - TITLE II--COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 3 - TITLE II--JUSTICE AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 4 - TITLE III--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
 Table 5 - TITLE IV--ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT 
 Table 6 - TITLE V--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT 
 Table 7 - TITLE VI--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY 
 Table 8 - TITLE VII--INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 9 - TITLE VIII--DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 10 - TITLE VIII--DEPT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 11 - TITLE VIII--DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 12 - TITLE IX--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH 
 Table 13 - TITLE X--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 14 - TITLE XI--STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS 
 Table 15 - TITLE XII--TRANSPORTATION AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 16 - TITLE XII-- HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
 Table 17 - TITLE XIII--HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
 Table 18 - TITLE XIV--STATE FISCAL STABILIZATION FUND 
 Table 19 - TITLE XV--ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY 
 DSS Data Model: ARRA DSS Tables - Division B 
 Table 20 - TITLE I--TAX PROVISIONS 
 Table 21 - TITLE II--ASSISTANCE FOR UNEMPLOYED WORKERS/STRUGGLING FAMILIES 
 Table 22 - TITLE III--PREMIUM ASSISTANCE FOR COBRA BENEFITS - Assistance for Health Insurance 
 Table 23 - TITLE IV--MEDICARE AND MEDICAID HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY; MISCELLANEOUS MEDICARE PROVISIONS 
 Table 24 - TITLE V--STATE FISCAL RELIEF 
 Table 25 - TITLE VI--BROADBAND TECHNOLOGY OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAM 
 Table 26 - TITLE VII--LIMITS ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
 Vapsoft Analysis Menu 
 [Summary] 
 1 = ARRA Summary 
 2 = ARRA Source Website 
 3 = 2009 Contracts 
 4 = 2009 Contracts by Place 
 5 = Contracts History by State 
 6 = Contracts Hist by District 
 7 = Contracts Hist Contract Agency 
 8 = Contracts Hist Fund Agency 
 9 = Contracts Hist Competition Cat 
 10 = Contracts Hist Competition Type 
 11 = Contracts Hist Competition NoReason 
 12 = Contracts Hist ProductService 
 13 = 2009 Grants 
 14 = Grants Hist Type 
 15 = Grants Hist District 
 16 = Grants Hist Place 
 17 = Grants Hist Agency 
 18 = Grants Hist AssistanceType 
 19 = 2009 Loan 
 20 = Loan Hist Type 
 21 = Loan Hist District 
 22 = Loan Hist State 
 23 = Loan Hist SubsidyCost 
 24 = Loan Hist FaceValue 
 25 = TARP Banks 
 26 = ARRA Programs by State 
 [AT1-3] (Division A Title I - III) 
 1 = Title II DOC ARRA Summary 
 2 = Title II Census 2010 
 [AT4-6] (Division A Title IV - VI) 
 1 = Title V GSA Buildings 
 2 = Title VI DHS ARRA Projects 
 3 = T-IV Energy Efficiency_NE 
 [AT7-8] (Division A Title VII and VIII) 
 1 = T-VII National Endowment 
 2 = Title VIII HeadStart 
 3 = Title VIII HHS ChildCare 
 4 = Title VIII HHS Immunization 
 5 = Title VIII HHS Summary 
 6 = Title VIII HHS CSBG 
 7 = Title VIII HHS CSBG Tribes 
 8 = Title VIII HHS Adoption 
 9 = Title VIII HHS TANF 
 10 = Title VIII HHS Medicaid 
 11 = Title VIII HHS DSH 
 12 = Title VIII HHS_Nutrition Svcs 
 13 = T-VIII HHS Com Health Center 
 14 = T-VIII HHS Patient Services 
 [AT12-15] (Division A Title XII - XV) 
 1 = T-XII Public Transp 
 2 = T-XII HUD State Summary 
 3 = Title XII HUD CDBG 
 4 = T-XII HUD Lead Hazard 
 5 = T-XII HUD Homeless 
 6 = T-XII HUD Indian Housing 
 7 = T-XII HUD_Public Housing 
 8 = T-XII HUD Rental Assist 
 9 = Title XII HUD TCAP 
 10 = Title XII HUD State Graf 
 11 = T-XII PublicTransp State 
 [BT1-7] (Division B Title I) 
 1 = ARRA Pay Tax Credit 
 ARRA "Prototype" 
 q Data : ARRA Decision Support Data 
 q MOU : Security - NDA (Customer and VAPsoft) 
 Development &amp; Installation by VAPsoft 
 Training by VAPsoft 
 Prototype Duration 
 Customer's Evaluation 
 Customer's Decision 
 
 
 ARRA "Prototype": RATA Board 
 1) Recovery Accountability Transportation Act Board will provide Excel-based ARRA data to Vapsoft. 
 2) Vapsoft will create "Prototype" ARRA DSS data base . 
 3) Vapsoft will package Vapsoft-based DSS application. 
 4) Vapsoft will install the application for all members of RATA Board and train the Board members. 
 5) Board members will use the system and evaluate Vapsoft application for further plan. 
 Demo 
 q App Development - ATgen 
 q Analytical Processing 
 ARRA Data 
 q Q &amp; A 
 
 
 I would like to contribute a little to President Obama's vision of IT solutions for ARRA. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/add-simulation-models-to-understand-interdependencies
 
 
 Add Simulation Models to Understand Interdependencies 
 
 Provide a series of simulations that model the interdependent set of critical social forces that must be kept in balance to ensure a safe, stable and prosperous America. Many of these forces involve feedback loops and dependencies that can be best understood using either equilibrium or game theory models. By linking different areas of ARRA investment (e.g. infrastructure, education, environment, etc) to an appropriate model, citizens might be able to better see the investments more holistically, and understand how each is likely to contribute in a broader fashion to the recovery. 
 
 First and foremost, these kinds of interdependency models will make citizens more aware that they exist in a virtual ecosystem, one in which the Government's actions can have both local and global unintended impact and consequences. Such knowledge transparency can allow the rise of a greater public sensitivity and deeper understanding of the needs and issues that impact local, national and global communities. In turn, this can bring people, from both inside and outside Government, closer together in an attempt to seek out where their most important shared interests really lie, and a better understanding of the potential unintended consequences of poorly informed, or closely held decision making. This can give focus, energy and a greater sense of urgency to Government programs that relate to or address these shared interests. 
 The awareness that they can both understand and positively impact the direction of Government and more fully understand policy and decision consequences as part of a larger interconnected ecosystem, can also be extraordinarily empowering to individual citizens. Better informed citizenry can better participate in the direction of Government, which can be guided by more informed leaders who are much more visibly accountable to the people, and who consequently make better, more balanced and informed decisions. This will also make it easier for our leaders to layout and communicate a practical path towards the greater good. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/eclipse-based-transparency-tool-ibm-mashups-combined-with-dashboards
 
 
 Eclipse Based: Transparency Tool IBM Mashups combined with Dashboards
 
 By a Non IT Power Business user you have a simple fast way of providing transparency using the template mandated by OMB showing stimulus reporting. You can adapt and change the look and feel quickly to keep up with the changes. Mash ups allow the end user to manipulate and show status quickly and efficiently without waiting months for IT to provide you with a Dashboard.<a class="external-link" href="http://www-01.ibm.com/software/lotus/products/mashups/">http://www-01.ibm.com/software/lotus/products/mashups/</a> 
 
 IBM® Lotus® Mashups provides a lightweight mashup environment for assembling personal, enterprise and Web content into simple, flexible, and dynamic applications. With Lotus Mashups, Web-savvy business users can easily create and share new applications that address their immediate business needs. A complete Open solution which helps organizations improve productivity and effectiveness. 
 See what Boeing is doing to assist FAA Air Traffic Controllers assist in building rapid applications for Critical Situations. (Neo Project) 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/i-f-you-have-an-idea-can-you-trust-it-to-not-be-stolen
 
 
 I f you have an idea can you trust it to not be stolen ?
 
 CAN I GET SOME ONE TO WORK WITH ME ON A IDEA I HAVE ON A NEW TYPE OF BATTERY NEVER TRIED BEFOR ? IT IS JUST A CONCEPT ? NEED HELP TO WORKING OUT THE DETAILS ? ( TRUST IS A BIG FACTOR ! ) BUT I WOULD LIKE TO WORK WITH SOMEONE THAT IS TRYING TO HELP OUR COUNTRY NOT JUST IN THIS FOR THE GREED ! IF IT WORKS , IT WILL PAY TO BE THERE , AND GET CREDIT FOR BEING A PART AND BEING THERE! NEED HELP IN ALL STAGES TO GET THIS DONE! IF YOU DO NOT KNOW THEN IT WILL NEVER BE KNOWN ! THIS IS NOT A GAME TO ME ! IT IS LIKE AN IDEA , YOU WILL NEVER KNOW IF YOU DO NOT TRY! ? OR LOOK IN TO IT ? IT ONLY MAKES SCENE, AND MAKES NEW SCIENCE! A BATTERY FROM HERE THE USA! A JOB MAKER! IT IS MORE THAN A BATTERY AS YOU KNOW ONE TO BE ! NEED HELP TO GET IT ALL STARTED AND ALL THE WAY TO THE FINNISH! (HAY SPARKY) I CAN NOT SAY MORE! 
 
 There is a need for this and no one in the world has thought of this as of yet ! I still have more , I could say , 
 I have a big trust thing on this , this time ! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/gfinance360-financial-dashboard
 
 
 GFinance360 - Financial Dashboard
 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://www.jnetdirect.com/">JNetDirect</a> has just released a new software application
called <a class="external-link" href="http://www.jnetdirect.com/products.php?op=gfinance360">GFinance360</a> that has been specifically designed in response to the
<a class="external-link" href="http://www.recovery.gov/?q=content/act">Recovery &amp; Reinvestment Act</a>. GFinance360 is a financial dashboard solution created to assist Budget Managers, Finance Directors and CFOs
in the public sector. 
 To meet (some of)
the accountability and transparency objectives of the Recovery &amp;
Reinvestment Act, organizations must: 
 · 
Provide data/reports in a clear,
timely and accurate manner 
 · 
Make data/reports accessible to the
public 
 · 
Make reports published in a
structured format 
 · 
 Make Recovery funds
awarded and distributed in a prompt, fair, and reasonable manner 
 GFinance360
allows finance and budget departments to easily manage their budget,
expenditures and revenues while eliminating manual processes and meeting the
goals and objectives of this Act. With GFinance360 and JNetDirect's IT services
organizations are able to (1) provide timely and accurate information; (2)
provide the ability to upload specific information and/or reports to a website
for public dissemination; and (3) track
and manage funds in a prompt, fair and reasonable manner. 
 Recovery.gov
could use this application to manage all the financial data (ie - expenditures)
as well has upload specific data to their website for the public to view. For more
information please visit <a href="http://www.jnetdirect.com/products.php?op=gfinance360">http://www.jnetdirect.com/products.php?op=gfinance360</a>. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/deeper-analytics-visualization
 
 
 Deeper Analytics &amp; Visualization
 
 Deeper analytics and richer visualization specific to the requirements set forth in the latest OMB Guidance of 4/3 and under the requirements of the Recovery Act. Federal agencies must be able to effectively manage the Recovery Act funds that they have been entrusted to manage and to ensure that the results attained by the investment of those funds achieve the goals set forth by the Administration. We believe a COTS solution, specifically developed for the Recovery Act requirements and can be modified for use by both Federal agencies and state and local governments achieves those goals. Please give us your feedback based on a notional demo we have created: <a href="http://www.cognos.com/solutions/industry/government/economic-recovery.html?mc=-web_hp">http://www.cognos.com/solutions/industry/government/economic-recovery.html?mc=-web_hp</a>. 
 
 It is critical to be able to monitor and measure where those funds have been invested, report on the results achieved at a program by program level and with an aggregated view, to be able to drill down deeper into programs and use advance analytic capabilities to fully understand the impact those funds will have on stimulating local economies and creating jobs. We have developed a solution that allows both Federal government agencies disbursing funds and state and local government who are the recipients of funds to track in depth how those funds have been invested and the results they have generated to date. 
 This solution can be modified QUICKLY to meet the changing requirements and ties in with an overall Government Performance Management Solution. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-transparency-openness-and-access
 
 
 Data Transparency, Openness, and Access
 
 Provide transparency into the sources of the data used for the tables/figures in all of the areas on Recovery.gov. This will enable site visitors to fully understand who is responsible for the information, data correctness/cleanliness, margin of error for statistical analyses, compilation date, volatility/frequency of updates, and expiration window. 
 
 In addition, all source data should be made programmatically accessible via open standard protocols and interfaces (HTTP, SOAP, REST, etc.). 
 
 Given the potential cost and complexity of hosting such data and managing an interface layer - and that the demand on the data sources is unknown and may need to scale significantly, I recommend using a Cloud-based platform rather than establishing a government-run IT datacenter (the data is already free and open, which can help to reduce privacy and security concerns). Data.gov is a good start - but the solution for Recovery.gov should focus on Recovery information, and provide API access rather than downloadable files. 
 
 Microsoft is launching an Open Government Data Initiative (OGDI) that will help foster the development of solutions like this hosted in Windows Azure. Obviously, I recommend considering the use of this initiative (or similar) and the code, technology, and guidance provided (which are free and open) to accelerate the time to market and reduce the costs for this implementation with Recovery.gov. More information on OGDI can be found at <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/government/opengovdata"> http://www.microsoft.com/government/opengovdata </a> shortly (it is being launched next week), or send email to <a href="mailto:askogdi@microsoft.com"> askogdi@microsoft.com </a> for details. 
 
 
 Providing this level of visibility and transparency into the data sources will help insure that the site visitors have a high level of confidence and trust in the data, and will enable them to understand when data becomes irrelevant or useless - and whom to contact for resolution if there are any problems. 
 In addition, providing open API access to the source data will aid in the direct integration with other solutions, which will extend the usefulness of the Recovery.gov site. Using a Cloud solution, like Windows Azure, can reduce costs vs. having to host and manage a datacenter - and can allow for extremely high scalability and availability. It will also help ensure government agency participation by potentially reducing their costs and simplifying their technical requirements for publishing data and information. 
 Ultimately, this concept will enable developers using any technology, such as .NET, Java, Flash, Silverlight, PHP, etc, to use the Recovery information to build a broad array of innovative solutions, mash-ups, data visualizations, etc. that would be challenging for the Recovery.gov developers to envision or develop themselves. Recovery.gov will get the collective benefit of a huge audience of developers and experts on analyzing and understanding the recovery data, which will help to make the site and data more useful to the public. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/kiss-with-geospatial-information
 
 
 KISS with geospatial information
 
 I've read through several ideas on The National Dialogue and have been very impressed by energy and enthusiasm of people willing to contribute. My interests are in geospatial information and web development. So, I'd like to propose a simple idea that I haven't seen in topics related to these concepts. 
 
 We need to keep things simple in the geospatial world just like in other aspects of information technology. Many people, including IT professionals, do not have an understanding about geospatial information or the variety of GIS software and tend to go with overly complex solutions that potentially could solve all their problems. Rather, a bottom-up approach, as in many aspects of the Semantic Web and Linked Open Data, would be just as appropriate here. 
 
 There is a BIG difference between geospatial information and GIS. A huge challenge we all face is the abundance of information; data collection strategies and search and discovery methods are difficult to "get right" for everybody. Information is important! Tools can be built around it, and more tools will come later. 
 
 Let's add geospatial coordinates to standard web pages and documents. Let's make sure we add location names to information. Names could be administrative, cultural, or physical. Web services and tools can handle this information in many ways (distances between web pages, RSS feeds on a map), but it must be present first. 
 
 There is a lot that goes into the term GIS. People use it often in misleading ways. A Geographic Information System is usually a large system that handles many aspects, from storage to analysis to display of geospatial data. There is a BIG difference among the following, w.r.t. geospatial information 
 
 storage (file formats, databases) context or project files (ways of keeping all project information together) analysis display search and discovery (including exploratory data analysis) communication protocols 
 Let's build small, efficient, modular components that have their respective strengths in one of the above categories. Let these components be developed and enhanced individually, not technologically dependent on each other. Let communities build their own applications that can utilize Recovery.gov/ARRA information in ways unthought of now. 
 
 Maps (and charts) are great. Patterns will emerge and be found that would not be found otherwise. Let geospatial data formats for maps be open, readable by everyone. Let's have open context/project files that can be shared among everyone. Open data formats and contextual files are just as, if not more, important than the final maps themselves. (The explosion of maps through KML taught us that.) 
 
 Let's make the communication among these components (from data to analysis to display) open and available to everybody. Let's use common, existing protocols to pass information back and forth. Let's tag our information and build our tools in growing and enthusiastic environments. 
 
 Let's not put up barriers to what may be one of the most important collections of data in our country today. The term "National Dialogue" is a great idea and model to follow. 
 
This idea is building simple, modular components; treating storage, display,
analysis of geodata separately; using open communication protocols between these components; and keeping geospatial information
separate from
 the tools that process it. 
 
 
 Many other already proposed ideas do a good job at describing the benefits of maps and geospatial information. As of this writing (May 2, 15:30 EDT) five out of the top ten most commented ideas concern geospatial information (not counting the Linked Open Data idea proposed by Tim Berners-Lee, which could very well be argued applies here.) 
 It is obvious to many the importance of viewing maps on the web, as well as on TV broadcasts, newspapers, books, etc... It is an enlightening (and entertaining!) way to display information and pull out patterns not necessarily seen otherwise. 
 This specific idea falls in line with many other ideas proposed The Dialogue, from Linked Data to open document formats, to Google Earth tracking, to semantic web initiatives. Keeping things smaller, faster, and open allows for geospatial information and tools to become part of our everyday news and work-flow and applicable to many of the emerging ideas within Information Technologies. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/social-networks-grants-management
 
 
 Social Networks &amp; Grants Management 
 
 President Obama has the vision, we have to match that vision on the implementation/organizational side of the equation, while we save money, leverage limited resources, and demonstrate practical and useful outcomes. 
 
 Without a fundamental shift in how we implement programs, our President will be blamed if things "don't work". The public rarely thinks about the organizational capacity needed to match a truly different paradigm. 
 
 My idea combines the fundamental principles of good government, efficiency, best practices and accountability with Web 2.0 social media technologies. 
 
 Utilizing social networking practices, in grant and other applied setting programs, will enhance the ability of agencies to communicate, organize work products, share discoveries, conduct failure analysis and break down geographical boundaries. 
 
 There is a convergence between how social networks, properly administrated, would work, save money, deal with geographical issues, promote best practices and address many grant administration and program problems and issues. 
 
 There are many choices in how we set up a social networks. I am suggesting using the Ning framework. It is easy to create closed systems/networks, only for the grantees in each grant program and the grant administrator, not open to the general public. 
 
 I want to use social networking platforms as program tools. Right now grant administration is labor intensive, very costly and rarely captures the wins in the communities granted the funds. We "get together" with our grantees by inviting them to come to Washington, DC for a conference, maybe once a year. 
 
 Most of the time the grantees never really know each other or what they are doing with the funding, they rarely get to share a great idea or big problem, they are scattered around the country craving connection and usually not getting it in a meaningful way. 
 
 Grantees may get site visits, but that is only one part of the grant program and always a snapshot. Even training and technical assistance needs could be met in different ways with much less money. 
 
 Applied and practical evaluation methodologies could easily be facilitated through a well designed social network as well. On the ground, community programs would greatly benefit by learning how to conduct meaningful evaluation strategies, without having to become scientists. 
 
 Can you imagine, if each grant initiative had their own social network, as part of their grant? Only the grantees would be allowed to be members. The grant administrator would also be the social network administrator. It would make so many things easier, including communication, geography, best practices shared between grantees, evaluation, etc. It would save a lot of money and time. 
 
 My extensive experience in grants, grant evaluation, training, technical assistance, building collaborative partnerships, discovering best practices and planning for results, in combination with using this social networking framework, convinces me this technology would make a significant difference in the accomplishment of tricky and multiple goals. 
 
 I am sure this will change the landscape of how we manage complex program initiatives. It doesn't solve all the problems, but it will help a lot and meet many criteria not met currently. 
 
 As the Administration challenges federal agencies to think outside the box, increase accountability and public transparency, we will see a simultaneous emphasis on collaboration, community building, leveraging resources, reducing redundancy and increasing outcomes with public money. The social networking paradigm I'm suggesting will meet these goals. 
 
 Utilizing social networking practices, in grant and other applied setting programs, will enhance the ability of agencies to communicate, organize work products, share discoveries and break down geographical boundaries (huge issue). Security, delicate issues and finances do not need to be a part of this for this to work! 
 
 My Background: 
 
 Recipient of $3M Community Partnership Grant to Study Community Collaboration, Planning for Results and Applied Setting Evaluation. 
 
 Justice Department Fellow at COPS. 
 Retrospectively evaluated the innovative Advancing Community Policing Grants in the United States. Matched evaluation style with the values we wanted to create to cut down on cognitive dissonance. Justice and I published a best practices book (about this project) and distributed it to over 7,000 local law enforcement agencies. 
 
 Have extensive experience is using social networks to build community. 
 
 
 We will match President Obama's vision with actual practice. We will save time and money and accomplish many things that were previously labor intensive. 
 We will connect people all over the country, under each grant program, into one community. We will infuse the social networks with the values and goals integral to the project goals. 
 We will build online communities, increase efficiency, capitalize on grantee learning, discover issues quickly, use the "community to solve problems", save money, time and leverage limited resources. 
 It's innovative, creative, uses knowledge in practical ways, can be shared and replicated and continuously improved. 
 In addition it will increase our organizational capacity, grantee capacity and connect people far beyond the grant cycle so we are likely to have more sustainable results. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/provide-data-in-common-formats
 
 
 Provide Data in Common Formats
 
 Recovery.gov is operating on a fast timetable. Those working with its data want to operate with similar speed. To do so, the exposed data needs to be available in formats with low barriers to use -- that means good documentation, minimal cost and robust communities of users. In practice, that means free, open formats: XML, JSON, N3, YAML -- the specific choice doesn't matter nearly as much as the fact that it is non-proprietary and well-supported by noncommercial tools. Within these formats, existing standards should be used whenever possible. The site's architects should look to XBRL, KML, Atom/RSS, the USASpending.gov API result format and other relevant standards. The creation of new standards should be a last resort. Finally, it should be noted that the importance of openness extends not only to the means of organizing the records, but the records themselves. All released data must be public domain. In the past, some federal systems have used proprietary data like Dun &amp; Bradstreet's DUNS system for identifying entities. Even when such identifiers are offered to the government without cost, they can present significant legal roadblocks to downstream users of the resulting datasets. Such proprietary identifiers should be avoided whenever possible. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/web-application-to-manage-stimulus-bill-projects
 
 
 Web Application to manage Stimulus Bill projects
 
 Web based software to monitor the 
Stimulus Bill projects in various states, to ensure they are properly funded, 
managed and accounted for and are transparent to all interested parties. To 
assist in this endeavor, Level One Technologies has developed a web based 
application that will be modified to meet these requirements at the federal 
level and on a state by state basis. The application is an ASP, based on Epay 
Manager (<a>www.epaymanager.com</a>), a solution our company developed 
for the transportation industry. 
 
 
 To review the details of a proposal we've made 
to the state of Missouri, please use the following link: 
 
 <a>http://issuu.com/levelonetechnologies/docs/transform20</a><a></a> 
 
 The new system will be available in 12 weeks and 
will allow the federal or any state government to 
enter and/or download Stimulus Bill projects and proposals, collect and store 
all related documents, track each proposal's progress through the review and 
approval process, using sequential approval chains and provide a mechanism for 
the state to collect and store post funding updates and documents required by 
the Federal government. The system will feature unique lists of transactions by 
status (pending, processing, approved, rejected, funded and completed); it has 
the ability to initiate funding using ACH transfers and offers a complete audit 
trail for each transaction. In addition, the system will offer a full range of 
search and reporting tools for both public and government use, with safeguards 
for documents that are not subject to sunshine law provisions. 
 
 The software is available for an annual licensing 
fee, plus the cost of any customizations that your agency may require. 
 
 Please contact me at your earliest convenience to 
discuss whether this application can assist you in meeting your agency's 
Stimulus Bill reporting responsibilities. 
 Sincerely, 
 
 Tom Whaley 
 Level One Technologies 
 314-575-7438 
 
 
 The system will provide a universal platform for all states to register and manage their Stimulus Bill projects and make these projects viewable and transparent to the Federal government and to the public. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/bring-in-a-data-visualization-expert-team-consultation-and-crash-course
 
 
 Bring in a data visualization expert/team -- consultation and crash course
 
 The current charts/graphs featured on the recovery.gov home page are awful. I know you guys have spoken with Edward Tufte some (pro bono on his part), but I'd like you to engage someone more like Stephen Few (I have NO affiliation with Stephen Few or Perceptual Edge, other than being a fan of his work). 95% of the information people want can best be represented with some flavor of a line chart (including sparklines) or a bar chart (including bullet graphs). And, it can be done while minimizing the data-pixel ratio. There is GOOD information out there on best practices, and that will go a long way to not only "providing the data" but "providing information." 
 
 Most of the people who will visit recovery.gov will underestimate the complexity of the underlying data. That's just the way data works. At the same time, most of the people who are collecting/aggregating the data are analytically-oriented, and most of the people who are doing web design are design-oriented. To effectively provide meaningful data-based information, these two disciplines have to be married together. There are a handful of basic principles required to do this effectively, and the current site is not demonstrating an understanding of those principles -- either on the home page or in the various .csv files that are available further down in the site. Without effectively presenting the information to the public, this entire exercise is for nought. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/gis-based-web-portal
 
 
 GIS based web portal
 
 Considering the geographic spread of recovery investment, suggests following design elements. 
 [11 Create a Web GIS may provide best visualization tool. 
 [2] Provide three separate and simultaneous views - (1) National, (2)State, (3)City/Rural, to display summary of investment projects. Users may use zip code to search information, translated to the 3 levels of data display. 
 [3] Data based charting/dashboard server applets to display statistics, along the 3 views [item2]. Use multi-dimension data warehouse methods to summarize statistics. 
 [4] Provide blog-entry feature along the 3 views [tem2], for citizen to engage in conversation 
 [5] Provide simplified project-charts [progress] on each project site 
 [6] provide demographic data [working population] around project site, to show the improvements due to the recovery project. 
 [7] Provide a Post-Project Review and feedback feature to learn from the project implementation process. 
 
 
 The geographic spread of projects and volume of communities need unique ways to display information, capture feedback and evaluate project processes and success. Such a context needs a GIS centric, data driven views, after action review features. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/leverage-commercial-vitrualization-solutions
 
 
 Leverage commercial vitrualization solutions
 
 
 
 Recovery.gov should be a poster
child of the modern IT solution. This would include 100% virtualized
computing resources that are out sourced to an industry leader in providing
commercial companies "cloud" services. This will allow a cost competitive
solution based solely on the solution and not on the acquisition, initial,
support, and other elements inherent in a asset ownership model - this amounts
to up to a 50% reduction in operating costs including the initial
startup. The cloud has the added benefit in increasing the platform
availability, and allow flexible and right sizing of the solution without
the Government buying or decommission hardware assets. 
 
 A Cloud solution has the added
benefit in being GREEN - as there is an estimated 60% reduction in hardware
costs and power usage. The net effect of this is a reduction in the
carbon footprint and power consumed in a datacenter. 
 
 
 
 
 If recovery.gov follows the path of using commerical practices and outsourcing, this will highlight the viability of a similar effort by other agencies. This one effort would set the stage of reducing the cost of IT and increase the flexibility. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/open-source-software
 
 
 Open Source Software
 
 At my school we have been able to save $$$ by using open source software solutions when possible. This allows us to purchase more hardware for students. 
 
 Open Source software is a global collaboration to create software. Many people around the world are involved to create and improve software, it is exciting to know that people work together, anonymously sometimes, for a common goal. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/egovernment-internal-web-services-utilization
 
 
 eGovernment Internal Web-Services Utilization
 
 In order to maximize efficiencies through the utilization of recovery expenditures (or eGovernment efficiencies in general,) the internal technology leveraged by the government for managing the expenditures and the technology leveraged for transparent public-facing reporting of expenditures should utilize the same web-services structures and implementations. 
 In other words, don't build two systems; instead configure a single implementation to meet numerous simultaneous needs. 
 
 The dramatically-increasing role of government in managing the recovery expenditures comes with great risk for misperceptions and decreased trust. By leveraging a common-services approach, this risk can be mitigated through the transparency of "one-stop-shop" web-services where government manages programmatic expenditures and the public receives recovery progress reporting and expenditure updates. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/10-core-principles-of-recovery-gov-collaboration
 
 
 10 Core Principles of Recovery.Gov Collaboration
 
 
 How can 
Recovery.Gov help mobilize all our skills and creativity to make the recovery 
faster, stronger, and more accountable? 
 The following tries to summarize ten basic principles for true collaboration among 
government, citizens, business, and all other stakeholders. All of these principles relate to or are supported by other contributions over the week, and come from a global team working on the question. 
 Keep the user experience super simple (give power 
users extra tabs for advanced tools) Enable deep and broad coverage (deep means allowing 
drill down on every contracted dollar spent along with where it went by person 
and stock keeping unit as though Wal-Mart were managing the spend; broad means 
covering all related spending over time by location as well as all related 
people and their relationships. For example, citizens can then add analytics on 
the political contributions of the vendors getting the contracts. This kind of 
analysis will be done anyway, so Recovery.Gov should accelerate the 
process.) 
 Compare all data geographically (down to each local 
address by latitude and longitude...up to each of the states...and across 
borders to related international stimulus efforts) 
 Keep data as current as possible (time stamped and 
including an expected time, if available, of the next update) 
 Let the community rate it all (data feeds, projects 
and grants, content and comment contributions to the site, as well as the 
authority/credibility of the contributors) 
 Enlist all available tools and users ((mashups of 
maps, micro blogs, video, pictures, advanced analytics, you name it; and support 
multiple languages, WYSIWYG editing, and accessibility) 
 Integrate social networking (proactively integrate 
with Facebook, Linked-in, et al) 
 Meet every day needs (enable interfaces to relevant 
transactions for calendar updating, bar coding, etc.) 
 Expand on Wikipedia's role model (Maintain a 
secured, official government site and a related public commentary/add-on site; 
let logged-in contributors link every expression or element to its definition 
and related information; maintain a public revision history so logged-in 
contributors can make additions and corrections that can always be reverted; 
flag any conflicts of interest, offering voluntary protocols that let 
contributors proactively disclose potential conflicts in their user profile; go 
beyond Wikipedia to redact malicious content so vandalism can be reviewed 
publicly, but can't be misread as legitimate content) 
 Redact vandalism (immediately delete any vandalism 
on the public commentary/add-on site in a public format so it can be reviewed by 
the public but can't be misread as legitimate content) 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-directory-of-3rd-party-recovery-websites
 
 
 Create Directory of 3rd Party Recovery Websites
 
 A lot of the best ideas, tools, and approaches regarding the use of recovery funds are being developed by 3rd party developers and thought leaders like Stimuluswatch.org. 
 Rather than re-create these sites, the government should create a directory on recovery.gov of these sites (or at least the top sites) 
 
 An easy way to leverage the brilliant minds outside the government already working hard to monitor the expenses and use of recovery funds. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/first-find-out-what-folks-want-to-know-by-interest-group
 
 
 First, find out what folks want to know by interest group.
 
 There are different constituencies that will want to have access to this information--John Q. Public wants to know what his tax dollars are being spent on; Jane Contractor wants to know what agencies are acquiring and to know about business opportunities; Edward Academia will want to know both of the above for analysis of process, governance, etc. 
 With that, we can be assured of gathering the right information that folks want to know versus just lots of information. 
 
 The gathering of data and recording it in various systems is a time-consuming task on an already-burdened staff. By ensuring we gather the information that is wanted, we can reduce the collection of data that no one is interested in. This will help to ensure data quality and timeliness and will help to reduce "inquiries" because we only put part of the information folks wanted to see on the website. This will avoid additional workload to respond to ad hoc inquiries. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/open-an-api-for-developers-to-get-data
 
 
 Open an API for developers to get data
 
 open an API for developers to consume informaiton , this would allow for any application or widget or website to present information . 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/get-edward-tuftes-advice
 
 
 Get Edward Tufte's Advice
 
 Involve Edward Tufte in the presentation of recovery data. See <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Tufte">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Tufte</a> . Prof. Tufte's books are must-reads for anyone designing the graphical presentation of data. According to the wikipedia entry, the NY Times called him "the da Vinci of Data." 
 
 Data presentation can be informative, interesting, dry, misleading, or confusing. Well-presented, data can be extremely informative and compelling. The how is as important as the what. Tufte's expertise is world-class and the American people deserve the best! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-amazon-cloud-computing-services-to-rapidly-implement-scalable-solution
 
 
 Use Amazon cloud computing services to rapidly implement scalable solution
 
 Use ready-to-go cloud computing services from Amazon (EC2 Computing Cloud, S3 Storage, SimpleDB) to rapidly deploy the infrastructure solution for Recovery.gov. 
 Run virtual machines on EC2 that scale up or down to meet the load. Alternatively, use a few master on-site servers with Amazon cloud server clusters to take load spikes and serve as fail-over. 
 Use S3 as virtualized (infinite) storage to store data. Then, use simpleDB to index the data. 
 
 
 Laying the IT infrastructure for projects take too long which takes time and resources away from achieving the goals of the initiative. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/achieving-transparency-requires-strategy-before-technology
 
 
 Achieving transparency requires STRATEGY before technology
 
 At a recent northern Virginia technology event, Federal CIO Vivek Kundra declared that the "days of multi-billion government IT systems are over." He went on to make the case for technologies that increase time-to-value yet decrease total cost-of-ownership. However, the more urgent (and more complex) challenge was Mr. Kundra's opening declaration: "IT investments must be tied to performance and outcomes." 
 So, while this online dialogue focuses on a discussion of technologies, it is equally critical to discuss the STRATEGY for leveraging, aligning, and vetting such technologies. Specifically, the Administration must engage its agencies to think about this challenge in terms of "Mission Performance Management." 
 Mission Performance Management (MPM) principles provide a foundation for mission and operational transparency in federal agencies and set the stage for a clear mapping of agency strategy to program operations, alignment of business architecture to enable line-of-sight visibility, standardization of data collection, and coordination among organizational stakeholders. 
 The MPM approach, developed by CSC's Strategy Services, provides a holistic view of establishing and sustaining high performance, transparency, and accountability: First, it aligns mission goals and strategy with business architecture and process improvement. Second, it integrates the right data with the best tool to create line-of-sight visibility into operations. And third, it integrates both organizational design and human capital training as vital components that sustain operational performance. 
 Additionally, the MPM approach starts with strategy and business alignment in order to better baseline performance and establish vision. Specifically, this approach enables and integrated understanding of how an agency's infrastructure, performance data, business processes, and governance work together and where they need improvement. Many agencies have immature data collection and maintenance processes and therefore require a strategy to systematically identify systems of record and necessary improvements to internal data management. 
 Only when a strategy dialogue precedes the technology discussion will changes lead to the desired outcomes -- and ultimately, to the goals of greater transparency and accountability. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/easier-navigation-and-ability-to-tag-topics
 
 
 Easier navigation and ability to tag topics 
 
 First, this website is a great idea. But, it is a great example of how quickly webpage information cycles out of control. On this site today, 4/28, there are 32 pages of content. I have been on this site for over an hour and have only gotten through the first five pages, which keep updating with new ideas. There is no way to tag the ideas that I have commented so that I can watch them or go back to them. I can only move forward and backward one page at a time rather than jump to the page I want. I can use the content to filter, but I'm afraid I'll miss out on a really good idea that way. I'm not complaining, really, but want to point out the shear amount of information that will quickly be generated on Recovery.gov. A quick, clear method to managing and organize volumes of information, and adoption of all of the navigation tools possible will be crucial. Adopt models like Amazon, Ebay that nest or embed information, mark visited pages and topics, provide easy search tools, and give users many paths to get the same place. Oh, and add a "back" button. 
 
 If you want people like me, who are not IT specialist and not patient, yet are major internet users to like value and use your site they need to be able to customize the pages to their own needs, even if they don't realize that that is what they are doing. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/complete-accountability-and-transparency-for-every-process
 
 
 Complete Accountability and Transparency For Every Process
 
 The Challenge: At the core of accountability and transparency is visibility into the status, information, and processes of each program. 
 Unfortunately, most processes in place today are manual--this not only means poor visibility but manual reporting which leaves room for error. Plus, means of automating theses processes are too expensive and take too long to implement to satisfy the timeframe of Recovery Act guidelines. This is not an option when speed is an important factor. 
 The Solution: Lean Business Process Management (BPM) offers a swift and pragmatic approach to process management. Lean BPM solutions make is simple to design and deploy collaborative applications quickly--these applications automate processes, capture critical data at every step, and provide full transparency across a process. 
 Additionally, Lean BPM solutions are built for non-coders, people like Business Analysts, so they can quickly make changes to their collaborative applications (without involving technical resources) as guidelines continue to evolve. See An Example: Here's an example of a Lean BPM application powered by Serena Business Mashups. It's an application that manages the process for ARRA Project Submission, Review, and Approval. In true lean fashion, it was built in just hours, and deployed in minutes. You can check it out on Serena's site at <a class="external-link" href="http://www.serena.com/go/arra">www.serena.com/go/arra</a>. 
 
 Manual processes make full traceability and accountability a nearly impossible goal. What's more is that traditional systems for automating processes are expensive, cumbersome, and require costly technical resources. 
 Lean BPM solutions offer an alternative. With Lean BPM you design and deploy your own collaborative applications without coding skills. These applications bring speed to your organization with streamlined processes and have detailed audit logs built right in. 
 Agency Example: U.S. Office of Personnel Management Over the last five years, OPM has been leveraging a Lean BPM solution powered by Serena Business Mashups. The collaborative applications OPM deployed manage the communication, collaboration and enforcement of its standard processes, such as legal reviews, purchase requests and employee on-boarding. In that timeframe, their Lean BPM solution has been instrumental in developing roughly 80 process solutions in the areas of health benefits, background checks, FOIA requests, OMB Circular A123 compliance, processes for federal acquisitions and IT defect and enhancement management. 
 Currently 60% of OPM employees use these collaborative applications and that is expected to grow to 100% in the next two years. 
 Many of the processes that typically took over a year to deploy in prior systems are now being deployed in less than two months . Before using their Lean BPM solution, managing processes was highly labor intensive and inefficient, and managers had very little visibility into whether projects were proceeding in a timely manner, or if resources were allocated strategically. 
 Now, with Serena's Lean BPM solution, managers know where projects and processes stand and quickly identify and clear bottlenecks. Because workflow is automated and tracked, employees and teams are fully accountable for the work they perform and cannot bypass standard procedures. 
 Thanks to reminders, escalations and other notifications, employees know exactly what's expected of them and when they've received ownership. 
 Automated processes built with Serena's Lean BPM tool are also helping OPM better manage Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act requests. The agency processes 20,000 of these requests per year and must report on the results to the Department of Justice and on its own Web site. Using Serena to develop a process to do that was far less expensive for OPM than an available commercial off-the-shelf product. 
 There are a host of agencies and departments streamlining processes with Serena's Lean BPM solution. If you'd like to learn more, feel free to <a class="external-link" href="mailto:cbonamassa@serena.com">contact me</a>. 
 Note: This submission was provided by Serena Software, Inc. Serena Software was recently selected to participate in the "Six Strategies to Survive the Stimulus" event on April 29th at the National Press Club in Washington, DC. Additionally, Serena participated in the panel discussions along with GAO, OPM, and DOT. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/user-centric-experiences
 
 
 User-centric Experiences
 
 Essentially, the idea is quite simple. With regards to a highly personalized, engaging user experience, leverage existing, familiar, technologies that the public already has available to them. RIAs and dynamic documents are incredibly useful when crafting a user experience that has the ability to guide users where they need/want to go in an intuitive fashion. There are a number of ways to implement user experiences, some more flexible and usable than others. 
 
 One of the most important aspects of a successful RIA experience is the ability to reach the widest audience possible with minimal disruption. Because of this consideration, creating experiences based on Adobe Flash is quite desirable. The Adobe Flash Player is pre-deployed for government and citizens on a full 99% of the computers connected to the Internet today. With this in mind, government can take advantage of the ability to write the application one time and deploy it to all who wish to access the site without the need to force additional downloads of software. RIAs are also a very useful approach with regards to exposing geospatial information via interactive maps and complex data via user friendly, dynamic charts. As an example of a successful RIA-based user experience, please consider Adobe Connect, Adobe's Flash-based collaboration and eLearning suite. Already being proven by the State Department and the White House for delivering communications by President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton, this solution offers the ability for government to easily extend it's reach to citizens. Connect offers the ability for real-time interaction and well as on-demand interaction, making it a very flexible option for the government to communicate and collaborate with citizens and itself. Operating in tight conjunction with Adobe Flash to offer a complete user centric experience is the ISO 3200 standard, better known as PDF. Taking advantage of the ubiquity of the Adobe Reader, PDF serves as an ideal format for collecting AND sharing information for a number of compelling reasons: • Everyone who accesses the Internet is familiar with a PDF • PDF files are easy to use • The Adobe Reader is deployed on at least 94% of the Internet connected computers • PDF files can contain a wide variety of multimedia, including audio, video, geospatial maps, 3D imagery, etc. AND allows anyone with the Adobe Reader access to this diverse information set without the need for additional software for viewing • People generally trust PDF files • PDF files can be granted special permissions that expose latent capabilities of the Adobe Reader, including access to commenting and mark up tools, digital signatures and local save for PDF-based forms • PDF is an ideal platform for collecting public feedback since comments and feedback can be easily collected from anyone, anywhere at anytime • Working in conjunction with Adobe Acrobat and Adobe LiveCycle ES, PDF files can be highly secured and controlled using sophisticated but simple to use capabilities • Rights management allows the government to control who can see documents, what they can do with them, how long they have access and even what have they done, all persistently and without regard to where the document resides • Digital signatures assure the integrity of documents • Certified documents ensure the authenticity and authoritativeness of a document • Information can be safely redacted, protecting PII and other sensitive information while still promoting a high degree of transparency Since one of the major requirements of Recovery.gov is to make information available to everyone in a timely and easy to use fashion, Adobe recommends taking advantage of tools and techniques the American public is already comfortable using. By leveraging the vast array of Adobe tools and technologies, personalized, trusted and familiar experiences can be rapidly developed and deployed that satisfy the many needs of an expectant public user base. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/capture-of-financial-distribution-information
 
 
 Capture of financial distribution information 
 
 Why not give these branches credit cards instead of checks? Most people know how a debit card works, and the purchases are easily traced. The government already has several different cards ranging from EBT to child support and beyond. Isn't it possible to request how many cards will each department need and then track the statements? 
 
 In my opinion, it is easier to falsify purchases if you write a check than if you use a card. Using a stimulus debit card would allow greater tracking of the funds. The cards would have to be configured differently than debit cards, but the idea remains basically the same. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/social-media-tools-for-local-government-reporting
 
 
 Social Media Tools for Local Government Reporting
 
 I am suggesting that guidance could be given to local government, perhaps even templates, for the use of social media to report recovery project information. I set up a quick example of how this could be accomplished for a fake project in a fake city using a fake contractor. You can find this example at <a class="external-link" href="http://recoveryprojectexample.blogspot.com/">Recovery Project Example.</a> (All info on this site has been set up only for the purpose of the demo although the Flickr photos are actual construction photos from my own stream, but used only to help illustrate the idea here.) 
 Most projects have similar events or steps that could easily be archived and reported in this manner. The idea is that all of this information is being generated anyway behind the scenes. Using social media just helps to get it in the hands of the public in an easy to access and potentially engaging format. 
 
 Social media tools offer the opportunity for distribution of real time
information, plus give the public the opportunity to provide feedback. This is important so that the public is kept up to date on project-related issues and information as soon as possible. Also, social media allows for dissemination of knowledge in an easy to understand format. 
 Also, the cost to implement this is minimal because the tools are open source or free, and the project team is already generating this information. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/make-it-easy-to-translate-data-to-sharable-location-based-intelligence
 
 
 Make it easy to translate data to sharable location based intelligence.
 
 The biggest barrier to communicating information geospatially is the difficulty and cost of translating data into a communicative geospatial form. The usual result is a static or difficult to use or share interactive map. We have just released a free beta version of a product that dramatically reduces those barriers. Please try it - spatialkey.com - and give us your feedback. We think it can make a significant contribution to the work of this community. 
 
 Unlocking information and presenting it in a highly interactive and and collaborative geospatial form will accelerate understanding and foster faster more informed stakeholder decision making on today's most critical social, economic and policy based issues. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/set-up-an-api-that-imports-data-directly-from-firms-cost-control-systems
 
 
 Set up an API that imports data directly from firm's cost control systems
 
 There are organizations already using cost controls systems like e-Builder to manage, control, and track expenditures, both from the ARRA and beyond. This information can be exported through existing APIs or data mining applications (either from the vendors, or industry standard like agcXML), enabling an environment of true visibility and accountability for construction projects. 
 
 Construction projects have traditionally been lax in terms of staying within budget. Technology is a key component, along with the improved processes it can enable, to prevent mismanagement and waste funds. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/semantic-data-integration-and-automated-analysis-for-governme-organizations
 
 
 Semantic data integration and automated analysis for governme organizations
 
 
 
 
 
 New semantic technology could establish applications and portals which help poeple to interact with governmental authorities more easy. 
 
 People could be supported to find the right service for their request or a precise anwer for their question. They shouldn't know all the different portals of governmental informations and services. All that portals could be integrated and help the citicen to find the requested information and service quickly. . 
 
 The citizen should start a process that keeps the user informed about the status and offers the oppotunity for querstions to a personal agent. This online processes should be integrated in one citizen account, that can only be accessed by the citizen to pretect his personal data and avoid glass citizon. This personalized accounts can be used to identify the needed services and information for him without any search by the user. 
 
 My company offers a middleware for the integration challanges and semantic interpretation of all the data to provide the right information in a given context, like a question, a requested service of a running process and even the peoples profile. The architecture is flexible to consider different data silos, security and privacy requirements and the management of terrabytes of data. The analytic approach is an automatic procedure to avoid huge investments in semantic data modelling. 
 
 There is also a benefit for the Governmental organizations, which become a central access to all the different data silos. It's a kind of virtual data warehouse, high scalable and with real time information. 
 
 
 
 
 Poeple often don't know where they find the information or the right service and agent for their needs. And often they must invest time in going to a governmental office and handle a lot of paper and forms. This could be more easy. 
 The technical approach ovoids investments in migrating data, modelling ontologies or any orher preperation. It is a full automatic analysis for a dynamic organization of all information and services. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/provide-ways-for-citizens-to-report-back-bad-data
 
 
 Provide ways for citizens to report back bad data
 
 Any undertaking of the scope of recovery.gov will inevitably face data quality issues. It will be important to harness the public's curiousity to identify and correct these problems. Depending on the nature of the expected problems, this may be as simple as an AJAX button that visitors can click to indicate that a line item seems suspicious, or as involved as a ticket-filing workflow. In either case, the process will only be meaningful if personnel are made available to investigate and resolve the ensuing reports. A blog in which identified problems and their resolutions are discussed could provide transparency and a simple means for developers to stay abreast of dataset revisions that may affect their work. 
 
 While the team implementing recovery.gov will no doubt do everything they can to ensure the correctness of the data they publish, there is no substitute for in-depth examination by members of the public -- whether local reporters, businessmen or concerned citizens -- who have the expertise and motivation to investigate specific subsets of the data. Harnessing their knowledge and energy can make recovery.gov more accurate and therefore more valuable. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/link-to-jobs-list-on-state-official-website
 
 
 Link to Jobs List on State official website 
 
 Establishment of an an Economic Recovery and Accountability section by each state's official web portal that provides the announcement and display of jobs created from the Recovery Act. 
 
 Job seekers can have a single point of access in finding work directly related to the money companies were awarded with the Recovery Act. This direct link is vital to the many unemployed workers that seek the very transparency and accountability that the current administration purports to address. Many people need jobs now and need to have direct access to finding them. 
 The site should also include the most current information with regard to which companies have received stimulus contract awards, when the anticipated jobs will be posted, where the jobs will be created, and other information that tracks the stimulus dollars and the jobs created from it. The government must not fail to keep the unemployed job seeker excluded from the very process that it seeks to remedy and turn this economy around. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/free-web-portal-to-fresh-high-resolution-aerial-satellite-imagery-for-gis
 
 
 Free web portal to fresh high resolution aerial&amp;satellite imagery for GIS
 
 Free web portal to fresh high resolution aerial&amp;satellite imagery for GIS. This could be limited to three inch pixel size from satellite imagery that is already be collected by our government every 24 hours. 
 We all need to "SEE" what needs to be done and then "SEE" it done. 
 
 Having this ability is a primary need for everything from homeland security to infrastructure management and public health. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/web-enabled-energy-consumption-geographic-dashboard
 
 
 Web Enabled Energy Consumption Geographic Dashboard
 
 
 Create a publicly accessible website that will allow end users to directly monitor and view energy consumption for homes and businesses. This could be viewed at an aggregate level by geographic region, by industry, sector, private homes etc. Alerts could be set for specific locations when thresholds are reached, either indicating excessive consumption or optimally efficient energy utilization. This could be displayed visually on web enabled maps with color coded pins that could be selected and drilled into. In addition, credits or incentives could be granted for consumers or producers that operate at maximum efficiency, or conversely identified for excessive consumption. This could be shown in comparison to the amount of stimulus received.

 
 This idea would allow consumers and businesses to monitor their energy consumption and allow them to optimize usage along with getting credits in doing so. For businesses, stimulus funds could be compared to energy utilization. This information would be publicly available, so the news impact would be real-time. Researchers could access this information and monitor energy consumption as it occurs. Contests and rewards could be offered for optimally efficient behavior. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/take-a-data-gov-approach-to-recovery-gov-using-web-2-0-web-3-0-techniques-1
 
 
 Take a data.gov approach to recovery.gov using Web 2.0 &amp; Web 3.0 techniques
 
 
 
 
 Web 2.0 in this sense means using XML to expose data structures, file formats, and services such as feeds. Web 3.0 means going further to expose and link the concepts and relationships found in data structures, file formats, documents, and web pages using semantic web and natural language technologies. 
 RECOVERY.GOV 
 Tracking, making sense, and assessing the stimulus program requires other kinds of data that provided today in recovery.gov. 
 The Obama administration values openness, transparency, collaboration, and connected governance. This is a big topic, especially given the scale of the Federal government (the scope of policy, information, and services that it deals with) and the number of individual citizens, media and social media, private companies, non-profit organizations, localities, states and regional organizations involved in one way or another with the stimulus program. 
 The Recovery.gov site is intended to enable people (citizens, investigative journalists, interest groups, government employees, … anyone) to find out how recovery funds are being spent and what we are getting for their money. Today, information being reported by agencies is limited. It encompasses the program areas authorized, and the funds obligated by the agency. But, not how the money is being used, and what is being accomplished with the funds. 
 So, this is not enough information to enable us to know whether any part of the stimulus program is working. We need to link obligation data from agencies with other sources that will enable us to track who is actually spending the money, where they are spending it, what they are spending it on, how they are spending it, and most importantly, what measurable results we are able to see coming from the monies spent. Where does this data come from? Some will come from Recovery.gov, but much more will come from sources outside of the recovery.gov spreadsheets. So, we need ways to connect information from disparate sources together, if we are going to follow the money from authorized program to use of funds to reported result. 
 Also, to investigate and analyze recovery initiatives, we need data that allows citizens to go deeper than mere surface reports. Creating 200 jobs in a town of 100 people would be suspicious. Creating 200 jobs in a locality that needs 2 million would be insignificant, hence a failure. We need to see recovery programs, spending, and accomplishments in the context of local statistical data and demographics. Sources of local information will be important in assessing the performance of specific projects. Data that enables citizens to gauge whether funds are being wasted or used fraudulently will come from varied public and private sources, e.g., internet social media, news feeds. We need transparency all the way into each specific project, and across its life cycle. 
 The idea is to take a "data.gov approach to recovery.gov" and to implement it using Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 techniques. Web 2.0 in this sense means using XML to expose data structures, file formats, and services such as feeds. Web 3.0 means going further to expose and link the concepts and relationships found in data structures, file formats, documents, and web pages using semantic web and natural language technologies. 
 For additional background on the role of cloud computing, web 2.0 and web 2.0 semantic technologies in implementing Obama administration themes of transparent, open, and collaborative e-governance, see the following presentation: 
 DATA.GOV 
 The Data.gov site is intended to provide a one-stop location where citizens (and their machines) can gain access to public information in a usable form. For data.gov to function, data providers need to expose five key categories on information that make transparency and accessibility operational for both people and machines, namely: 
 1 data set -- can be uploaded or remote 
 2 tagging or metadata about the data giving the structure of the data, provenance, etc. 
 3 definitions of what this metadata means (concepts, relationships, assertions, etc.), also "domain knowledge" explaining how to interpret it. 
 4 API or web services method of accessing the data, preferably REST-ful 
 5 URL where the data can be accessed. 
 The data for data.gov is to be selected and provided by all 25 agencies and 125 programs. The basic idea, in its simplest form, is to expose tables of information using XLM and provisioning data sets to the public using RSS feeds. The back-end concept is under discussion. One view is that agencies should expose data in some standard format that would be ported to some form of data.gov warehouse where it is made available through services. Another concept is that agencies should select from data they already make available on their websites, and provide a web services interface to enable data.gov to crawl the site and harvest the information needed. Trade-offs either way. Personally, I favor making fewer demands on agencies and handling conversion and interpretation issues as part of data.gov's value add. 
 Metadata, Tags &amp; Semantics. 
 To create mash-ups through data.gov or any aggregation vehicle, we have to know something about the data structure and what the data names (or column headings, or stubs, etc.) mean. For example, to answer a recovery.gov query I may need two or more spread sheets containing different information from different sources. I want to build a composite that combines some information from each of them. Sure, I can always rebuild the spreadsheet by hand using Excel. Hand-building is tedious because excel knows nothing about what any of the column heads mean. But, what if I could expose the structure of the spreadsheet so that the computer software could interpret that the column heading was the name of a property, and the cells beneath were instances of this, etc. Then, assuming I've been careful about how I named columns etc. I'd have a semi-automated way to build composite spreadsheets. That's what semantic web technologies give me. 
 Returning to recovery.gov, it gets more complicated if I want to combine (in some way) tables created by different people at different times using different data definitions. Even more complex if I want to map and link content from different spreadsheets, files, documents, web pages, etc. together. In the past we've always done this mapping one-off, by hand, with the results embedded in a particular solutions and not readily re-usable. 
 To map or mash-up different data sources and services, I have a meta data problem to resolve. What did person X mean by data field Y? Is the value presented in spreadsheet #1, for example a measurement of something over some time period, computed in a way that is compatible with other values that are presented in spreadsheet #2? Also, what do I know about the provenance and quality or integrity of the data in either table? When people resolve these questions, they draw on additional information about the data, as well as some knowledge about the domain in which the data is used. Typically, we find definitions written out in documents or on web pages, or we call someone who knows what the data names and data structures mean. 
 What if we would like to have an automated or semi-automated way to speed up and simplify the process of combining or mashing-up data? Then, the computer software needs to access and interpret more information than just the data set plus the data names. That is, if we want the computer to be able to help us to interpret, align, and link information from different sources, then we need to express the semantics of this metadata in a way that is machine computable. 
 What about natural language, and content structures other than tables? In addition, programs that extract information and concepts from natural language (or other sources) can apply the RSS strategy to communicate concepts and instances. This assumes that the classes of information being communicated are known, or otherwise discoverable, by the entity receiving the RSS feed. Typically, the number of classes is restricted, for example, to people, places, organizations, events. Also, when relationships are extracted, then the categories of these are restricted. 
 Linked Data 
 Linked data is powerful idea that has gained a growing following. Linked data calls for expressing structures, tags, and metadata as RDFa / xhtml, which provides a pretty robust way move the metadata around. Semantic web technologies provide a standard way to express both the data (or document, or page) and the meta information about the concepts and relationships of the data set, which can then be processed and transformed externally in various ways not only to change formatting, but also to map, align and harmonize alternative meanings of terms. 
 RSS feeds can communicate the structure of information, together with the content or instances of it. Typically this is applied to tables of data, forms, and simple document structures. Conceivably, it could be extended to schemas of graphics as well. It is the responsibility of the recipient of the RSS feed to know what the tags and structure of information mean. 
 A precursor of current thinking about data.gov was a program that the DC government established to provide RSS feeds for a number of data sets that could be used to create mash-ups and composite services. There was even a contest for putting together interesting mash-ups, widgets etc. that produced a number of cool services, and at zero cost to the government. The data.gov initiative will likely feature contests. 
 Semantic publishing. 
 Semantic publishing means sharing both the human readable, and the machine interpretable forms of information. In addition to tables of structured data, present the data structure and data element definitions and metadata in both human and machine-readable forms. Key ideas here include: 
 · First of all, the concepts of "public information" cover a lot more kinds of content than structured data tables, for example, all of the human-readable content published through government web sites, document collections, published reports, and much, much more. 
 · Second, the "publishing" concept carries with it the implication that this body of information has been subject to editing for understanding by people as well some "quality standard" of consistency, accuracy, and credibility. 
 · Third, the "semantic" aspect of the publishing means that all associated contents -- text, tables, graphics, images, etc. -- come with their structure and metadata expressed digitally (using semantic web, ontology, or other standard) so that any content in the publication can be machine processed as well as read by humans. 
 · Fourth, important government data aggregations and document collections already exist that combine multiple sources, have well formulated methodologies, have checked their facts, are well curated, and supported etc. These make logical building blocks for open public information that is trustworthy, accessible by concepts, and accessible in an internet friendly way. 
While it is always a good idea to start simply and get some early successes, it is also important to look ahead so as not to get boxed in. There is plenty of value from exposing the structure of tables together with the data they contain using RSS. But, this approach will encounter limitations as the data.gov site scales to more and data sets from more sources, as well as sources of higher knowledge content, etc. For data.gov to succeed, we will need to share knowledge about the data and domain in forms that both humans and machines can interpret. This will include incorporating terminology references and techniques for disambiguating the senses of natural language used to identify and define data concepts, provenance, and trust. This requires a form of syndication that is inclusive of ontology (definitions) and natural language understanding.
 
 
 Meeting the goals of recovery.gov requires methods that accommodate more data formats, sources, concepts and relationships than will be expressed in spreadsheets posted by agencies. The challenge is to make it easier for citizens, journalists, public interest organizations, government personnel and others to find, connect, analyze, the data and sources needed and present results in ways that communicate effectively. This means providing sharable means to expose the structure, concepts and data from many sources. For tables of information and structured forms, etc. this is doable today with either XML or semantic web technologies. However, as the numbers of data sets grows, the complexity of the information represented increases, and (in some cases) the structure of this information evolves, then we need to adopt semantic technology based approaches that can handle the scale, and simplify the combining of information. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/relevant-data-needs-to-be-captured-at-the-source
 
 
 Relevant Data Needs to be Captured at the Source 
 
 ARRA fund recipients will be challenged to provide the required data in the time necessary under the Act. A logical approach is to capture the data needed at the actual source - with the contractors that are performing the services on behalf of the recipient. For example, contractors can be required to submit invoices in sufficient detail and in a format that can be loaded into systems that support managing projects with multiple funding sources. These types of systems can then be used to provide the reporting necessary under ARRA. This will streamline the reporting process and allow the recipients to report back in a timely fashion. 
 The Solution Design Group, Inc. (Warrenton, Virginia) has developed a software solution, CapitalVision , that is designed specifically to manage and track the relationships between projects, contracts (and sub-contracts), assets, and multiple funding sources so that "owners" (e.g. governments, airports, transit authorities, etc.) can identify exactly how funds from a particular source (e.g. ARRA) are being expended down to the actual invoice line item level. The system complements and integrates with traditional financial and ERP systems, project and construction management systems, and scheduling systems using web services to provide a central repository for all capital program information in one source providing the transparency and accountability needed and the ability to meet the mandated reporting deadlines. (<a class="external-link" href="http://www.thesolutiondesigngroup.com">www.thesolutiondesigngroup.com</a>). 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/adapt-successful-federal-data-exchange-programs-to-arra-recipient-reporting
 
 
 Adapt successful federal data exchange programs to ARRA recipient reporting
 
 A key factor to enabling the public to monitor Recovery Act spending is to get accurate and timely reports from contract, grant and loan recipients in a format that is highly reusable on the web. This is a massive challenge, with tens of thousands of state and local government entities alone among the universe of potential recipients required to report to the federal government. 
 The good news is that the federal government has tackled similar reporting and compliance situations before -- in partnership with state and local governments -- and can adapt successful models to enable efficient and effective recipient reporting. 
 The federal government could <a class="external-link" href="http://gcn.com/articles/2009/03/09/commentary-message-flows-are-paramount.aspx">build upon the successes of existing federal information exchange programs</a>, such as the Environmental Protection Agency's Central Data Exchange (CDX). The idea is to adapt free open source data exchange tools that the government already uses for other mission purposes to aggregate and publish the required Recovery Act recipient data. <a class="external-link" href="http://xml.coverpages.org/epa-cdx.html">EPA's CDX </a>applies this approach with the help of open source gateway technology that helps states report data required by environmental regulations. This approach can be adjusted at relatively low cost to convey the data called for by the Recovery Act. 
 An April 15, 2009 executive forum co-hosted by the CGI Initiative for Collaborative Government and George Mason University dove deeper on this topic. Featured speakers included: 
 Kshemendra Paul, Federal Chief Architect at OMB's Office of E-Government and IT, who is actively involved in establishing a central governmentwide system for Recovery Act reporting. David McClure, Managing Vice President at Gartner Government Research, who has consulted with numerous federal, state, and local government executives about the Recovery Act. Stan Czerwinski, Director of Strategic Issues at the General Accountability Office, who coordinates GAO's work on stimulus programs. Lisa Schlosser, Director of the Office of Information Collection at the Environmental Protection Agency, who heads up EPA's collection of environmental data submissions from state and local governments. 
 For top-of-mind takeaways from the April 15 session and other related postings, see the following links: 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://collaborativegov.org/MyBlog/tackling-transparency.html">Tackling Recovery Act Transparency </a> 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://federalnewsradio.com/?nid=150&amp;sid=1651108">Coverage from the DorobekInsider.com</a> 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://www.collaborativegov.org/MyBlog/recovery-act-reporting.html"> Cracking the Tough Nut of Recovery Act Reporting </a> 
 <a href="http://www.collaborativegov.org">www.collaborativegov.org</a> 
 
 
 The fact that this approach is <a class="external-link" href="http://www.opensource.org/docs/osd">open source </a>means it's available to federal agencies, states and local governments to reuse to report and aggregate data from both very old and more modern systems. 
 This model could enable efficient quarterly recipient reporting of accurate project results for reuse and display on Recovery.gov. It also could offer at least three bonus benefits: 
 -First, it provides the ability to capture valuable data in a format that can be reused many ways for better decision-making -- both by citizens and government. 
 -Second, it has high potential for reuse by states to help manage the challenge of sub-recipient reporting (for example, see <a href="http://www.cgi.com/recovery">www.cgi.com/recovery</a>). 
 -Third, it offers flexibility to change over time (as the meaning of "transparency" evolves). 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/where-is-the-beef-network
 
 
 Where is the beef (network)?
 
 It has been proven time and again that data processing without a robust network will only lead to fragments and chaos. As the most powerful nation in the world, we need THE NETWORK to make information available and on demand to consumers who need it. This will open up all kinds of doors to accomplish what we really need to accomplish. 
 
 Did someone say healthcare reform? Without a robust network, we will be forced to scatter the data and make it nearly impossible to do simple task such as to validate who is who. We have been spinning way too many cycles to compensate, data processing wise, the disadvantage of not having a robust network. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/to-make-the-information-available-to-all-easily
 
 
 To make the information available to all easily...
 
 Add links and descriptions on networking pages such as myspace, twitter, and facebook. Make sure the average person can actually understand what the information pertains to, in layman's terms and not legal-speak. 
 
 Because the information is compiled on a website, and the most frequented sites today are the networking sites. Not only will it give easier access to the information, but it will reach the younger generations that have grown less interested- helping them become interested younger and more informed adult citizens. Remember, those tools were used to pull the nation together during the election. If those methods were well maintained, it would open new channels of availability, transparency and interest among the youth and adults alike. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/freedom-of-software
 
 
 Freedom of Software
 
 Many educated citizens in the United States of America may remember about the first amendment freedoms: freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly, freedom of the press, and petition the government for a redress of grievances. This is what our constitution holds the most important. When the constitution was written, there was no concept of computer software and how it would affect the world. The culture of Free Software has four freedoms defined throughout the world wide web with a clear, concise definition. <a class="external-link" href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html</a> <a class="external-link" href="http://freedomdefined.org/Definition">http://freedomdefined.org/Definition</a> 
 
 If we are given the result of software freedom, I believe we have the
potential for greater things. In my view free software guarantees that
our children will have the software we had. It guarantees that people
everywhere will be able to make new software and devices by studying
and improving the old. It guarantees that greater competition will
exist as our ability to take advantage in customizing the software, as
we see fit, is at its full advantage. 
 
Even beyond the ideal of software with open source programming code,
these ideals of Free Software ensure the freedoms of the computer users
and enrich us with the most important parts of our technical progress. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/ms-sharepoint
 
 
 MS Sharepoint
 
 Take advantage of MS Sharepoint technology to report stimulus information through password protected spreadsheets. 
 
 Simplicity i.e. ease of access 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/add-location-based-data-feed-for-building-mapping-apps-to-recovery.gov
 
 
 Add Location-based Data Feed for Building Mapping Apps to Recovery.gov
 
 Publish a location-based data feed with Recovery.gov so applications can be developed that enable "at-a-glance" visualization of projects starting up and completing across the country. This feed would be a key part of the Recovery.gov service and offer a geographic version of the popular RSS news format (called GeoRSS). An open source "mini-map" tool being developed for Geodata.gov illustrates how publishing such federal data feeds can spur significant innovation - 
 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NwzEsCftonk&amp;feature=channel_page">http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NwzEsCftonk&amp;feature=channel_page</a> 
 
 For government users unable to access YouTube another example is available here - 
 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://thecarbonproject.com/Videos/GOSGadget1/GOSGadget1.htm">http://thecarbonproject.com/Videos/GOSGadget1/GOSGadget1.htm</a> 
 
 This "Dashboard" for geodata.gov is powered by a GeoRSS data feed. The Dashboard uses Microsoft Gadgets and enhances common RSS functions with the ability to configure searches, view geodata footprints on a mini-map, and access desktop GIS applications from ESRI and other vendors directly with the data people find. Adding this type of feed to Recovery.gov will let anyone develop applications that show where projects are starting up and completing across the country. 
 
 
 Publishing federal government information in open data feeds has the potential to transform the technology industry. When DOD opened GPS readings for public use, an entire new industry of location-based applications was born. We see the same potential with federal data feeds that include location content. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/proposed-application-programming-interfaces-api-for-recovery.gov
 
 
 Proposed Application Programming Interfaces (API) for Recovery.gov
 
 In response to Mr. Earl Devaney's request sent out via email this morning, I have prepared a short proposal for a set of APIs that can be operated by Recovery.gov to make all Recovery Act data available to the public. The APIs I'm about to describe leverage the metamodel described in my previous article at this URL: <a class="external-link" href="proposed-metamodel-for-recovery-act-accountability-transparency-reporting">http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/proposed-metamodel-for-recovery-act-accountability-transparency-reporting</a> Here are the specific operations I'm proposing for the Recovery.gov data access API. There are probably other useful interfaces that could be added, but these are the major ones that should meet the needs of most use cases: Publishing APIs 
 Add a new major communications report Add a new stimulus program Add a new stimulus program milestone Add a new recipient Add a new funding notification report 
 Subscription APIs 
 Retrieve Major Communications (by agency, communication type, date of communication, or tag): Output available as either Atom, RSS, or JSON Retrieve Funding Allocation Reports (by agency, program, recipient, funding range, state, zip code range, date range, or jobs created): Output available as either Atom, RSS, JSON, or KML Retrieve alerts and notifications (by agency, program, recipient, state, zip code range, or date range): Output available as either Atom, RSS, JSON, or KML. See <a class="external-link" href="using-alerts-and-notifications-to-provide-timely-problem-detection">http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/using-alerts-and-notifications-to-provide-timely-problem-detection</a> for more information 
 As a general statement, these APIs should be implemented as web service interfaces. Specifically, I propose implementing them as RESTful services using Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) GET or POST operations. "REST" is an acronym that means "Representational state transfer", and is a simpler alternative to other web service standards such as Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP). 
 In most cases, input parameters are submitted to the service either via the HTTP URL query string (in the case of GET requests), or in the HTTP message body (in the case of POST requests). For the most part, output is in the form of the appropriate XML vocabulary (e.g., Atom, RSS, etc.), but in some cases non-XML output could be used (e.g., CSV or JSON) to support various use cases. For transactional (publishing) APIs, the appropriate authorization and encryption would be used (e.g., SSL). At Unisys, we are creating service interface specifications for the aforementioned API operations using the Web Service Description Language (WSDL) standard. These interfaces are being built into our Recovery Act Reporting Environment (RARE) product. I'd be delighted to have further discussions with the Recovery Act Accountability and Transparency Board about the applicability of these interfaces to Recovery.gov. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recovery-gov-data-confusion-or-data-in-context
 
 
 Recovery.gov - Data Confusion or Data in Context?
 
 As the central clearinghouse for all recovery related data, Recovery.gov has been tapped with managing and storing large amounts of data reported back by state and local governments on their recovery initiatives. It is not just storage of data that Recovery.gov is tasked with but also making this data available to interested individuals. Foremost amongst the interested parties, is the public, our citizens. How can they can get relevant, content rich information out of Recovery.gov.? To illustrate this, let's imagine how a citizen might interact with Recovery.gov. 
 
 Joe Q. Public lives in an area with high unemployment and a challenging housing market. It's been a few months since ARRA was passed and he doesn't see a lot activity but there has been some press on the subject lately. It seems that the unemployment rate is falling and housing sales are up in the region. One of Joe's elected representatives went so far as to say "We've gotten an above average share of ARRA funds and things are getting better at an above average rate." Joe seems to remember the same exuberance in the past, so he decides to head to Recovery.gov and see what he can discover for himself. 
 
 Once at Recovery.gov, Joe discovers that there is lots of data about his area and he can down load all of it. Wow, that's openness and transparency; he can't wait to get started. First hurdle, he's working at the library and they've restricted people's ability to down load data to the computer, you have to have a memory stick. The librarian explains that those are the policies but, in the interest of our story, lends him a memory stick. He busily starts to download the unemployment data, the housing data and the ARRA funding data to the borrowed stick. Once Joe opens the files he sees that they are all long lists of numbers that are separated by commas. What to do? Our friendly librarian helps Joe to copy the data to a spreadsheet and now he can see some of the measures associated with his region. The problem is that the data doesn't match up, some data is at the state level, some at the county level, FIPS County code, census track code. The data is also for different periods of time: quarterly, monthly, weekly. There's the data - open, transparent and useless. How to put all of this together? 
 
 As an alternative, think about Recovery.gov as an information portal built upon and supported with Business Intelligence. IBM Cognos can provide a Business Intelligence platform that is open, standards-based and flexible. Recovery.gov built on Business Intelligence can make Joe Q. Public's experience very different. Joe logs onto Recovery.gov and finds his state. From his state, Joe enters his county, housing starts and unemployment into a search box. IBM Cognos, and its integration with search, returns a list of results that include some charts and maps of Joe's county, Joe chooses a map view of his area that shows housing starts. Given the increased # of homes on the market, it actually looks like sales % has been flat - it is not getting better, but it has leveled off. Joe copies the link of his analysis and posts it to the blog of his local TV station. 
 
 Next, Joe chooses to swap the map for a table of data and he adds unemployment rates to the table. He makes an interesting discovery: it looks like a spike in unemployment is a leading indicator for problems in housing. Looking at the recent data, there seems to be a downward movement in unemployment but 3 months is not a trend. Joe emails himself a copy of his analysis so that he can come back to it in the future and see if the numbers have changed. Joe's pleased that Recovery.gov had given him the tools that he needed to take the raw data and turn it into the information that he wanted. Not a bad day at the library... 
 
 Guided exploration with context. This is what our citizens need. IBM Cognos can provide just such a platform. Since the information is modeled and presented to users with a drag and drop interface, citizens need not know how Counties and Census tracts relate to each other. Remove the complexity and manage it so that the user has the easiest experience possible. IBM Cognos provides citizen-centric reporting by providing guided exploration that pertains to all dimensions of information, regardless of where the data is stored. Users can perform complex analysis quickly and easily to get to the "why" behind the recovery data. Analyze data that's automatically organized in logical categories such as congressional district, investment category, progress of projects etc. Users can easily slice and dice the data and drill into details. 
 
 We have many existing citizen centric websites including the following: 
 Colorado School Accountability Reports: http://reportcard.cde.state.co.us/reportcard/CommandHandler.jsp 
 OPM: http://www.fedscope.opm.gov/; 
 City of Albequrque: http://cogpub.cabq.gov/cognos8/cgi-bin/cognos.cgi 
 
 Recovery.gov can provide knowledge and information built upon the data that can be viewed, analyzed and shared via the web or it can house raw data. Raw data that will increase the likelihood that multiple versions of the truth will be sold and reported on and that Joe Q. Public will still be at the library with open, transparent and useless data files. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/master-meta-data-management
 
 
 Master Meta Data Management
 
 Nice forum and WEB Page. In order to efficiently capitalize on `IT Development enthusiasm+open reporting of US Recovery Funds some `Order` ... Overall-Data-Design is required. In -database science- the term is `Meta Data Management. We recommend an Ongoing Data Architect to create and maintain a Cross-Agency, Cross-Subject Matter, Master-Data Definition Catalog accessible to ALL, managed by one. 
 
 The end result of Master-Meta-Data management is ability for cross
agency reporting on common data elements. This staff person would
interface with all project participants such that a `Birds-Eye` view,
capable of intricate drill-down and accountability is supported by the
Public+Open development process of RECOVERY.GOV. Thank you kindly for reading this idea. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/low-cost-web-based-subscription-application-to-track-stimulus-projects
 
 
 Low-Cost Web-Based Subscription Application to Track Stimulus Projects
 
 ActiveStrategy StimulusScorecard - available on the GSA schedule for the federal government - is a low-cost, turn-key web-based service designed to allow recipients and subrecipients of funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA or Recovery Act) to effectively and proactively monitor and manage their projects and programs. 
 ActiveStrategy StimulusScorecard collects the project information required by the ARRA and makes real-time data available so governments can identify the preemptive action needed to prevent delays, waste, fraud, and abuse that could undermine program performance and public confidence. Simply put, it is a service that allows governments to monitor, manage, review, and report on all stimulus programs and projects from one location. 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://forms.activestrategy.com/go/activestrategy/nationaldialogue_stimulus_webinar">View a demo of the system during the second half of this recording.</a> 
 StimulusScorecard provides a secure, low-cost system that requires virtually no IT support and can be online and ready to go in days. The package includes ActiveStrategy Enterprise online scorecard software, documentation, training, best practices measurements templates for the ARRA, telephone support, help selecting key measures and objectives to get your system usable right away, and ongoing analysis of OMB guidance. Coaching on how to use the system to conduct reviews of stimulus-funded projects and ARRA strategy is included as well. There is no software to buy or install - governments and agencies pay for the system only for as long as it is needed as part of the management and administrative costs of their stimulus projects. 
 
 ActiveStrategy StimulusScorecard allows federal agency, state, city, and local officials, as well as other Recovery Act recipients, to monitor and manage: 
 How efficiently and effectively the dollars are being spent in real time (i.e. are the programs on-time, on-budget, and on-quality from their original plan) How much impact there is on economic recovery (i.e. what long-term benefits are being realized in job creation, productivity, energy efficiency, etc.) Who is responsible for projects and what updates are they providing on performance How many projects and how many dollars have been awarded, spent, obligated or are pending 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/tag-ideas-as-semantics-syntax-or-technology-focus
 
 
 Tag Ideas as Semantics, Syntax, or Technology Focus
 
 I suggest that all of the ideas be tagged as focusing on information semantics, syntax, or technology. 
 I say this because information technology and product ideas should only be based on governed syntax and metadata, while governed syntax and metadata should only be based on governed semantics/terminology. 
 
 Building an information system without a sound data architecture, and a data architecture without an underlying terminology, could be described as mismanagement, wasteful, and abuse of resources, and possibly fraud. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-small-owl-ontologies-to-model-recovery-and-deploy-across-all-government
 
 
 Use small OWL ontologies to model recovery and deploy across all government
 
 We have build a number of OWL ontologies that model "recovery". The ontologies have constructs for government bodies, agencies, departments, offices and state governments. Indicators of the economics such as consumer price index, unemployment rate, personal consumption expenditures and government consumption expenditures. 
 This work build off work we started in 2003 when TopQuadrant was co-organizer of the first eGovernment conference at the White House Conference Center on the importance of Semantic Web Technologies for the sharing of data using the web infrastructure. 
 Some constructs from these ontologies are: 
 (1) http://www.bea.gov/models/owl/bea.owl#Indicator 
 (2) http://www.recovery.gov/models/owl/gov.owl#Office 
 (3) http://www.recovery.gov/models/owl/recovery.owl#Budget 
 What we propose is deploying these small models across all agencies and offices of government, publishing data against these ontologies and using the aggregation effect of the web to allow timely and accurate reporting of data to gauge (and hopefully propel) economic recovery. 
 We are interested to work with others in publishing ontologies for economic indicators, government bodies, and a model of "recovery". We have already transformed the egov.gov site into an OWL dataset of agencies and offices of government. These ontologies can be put on the web but we want a mechanism of governance in place before doing so. It is best that this is provided by a US Government Body. 
 Interested parties should contact TopQuadrant. 
 Ralph Hodgson - rhodgson at topquadrant.com 
 
 
 XML is not the end of the story, RDF and OWL are the technologies for model-based data sharing. Small models in OWL are effective ways of publishing data. Semantic Web infrastructure now allows linked data to be discoverable, interpretable and actionable. 
 As Jim Hendler has said "A Small amount of RDF goes a long way". 
 The government can save cost and improve data quality by using canonical forms of data. With the extensible capabilities of semantic web technologies, the data can be elaborated, transformed, merged and provisioned in many different ways. 
 Think "data-based" not "database" 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/transparency-is-more-than-publication-the-role-of-citizen-exchange
 
 
 Transparency is More Than Publication: The Role of Citizen Exchange
 
 Fair to say that Title XV of the Economic Recovery Act requiring transparency has unleashed a tidal wave of pent up energy and justified momentum towards a more open government. The "strings attached" funding provisions ensure that there will be a solid attempt at top down enforcement of transparency for state and local jurisdictions.

But what is "transparency" and why have we committed to achieving it?

Definition

Both the word "transparency" and the transparency paradigm have taken on a common meaning of openness - of doing the government's business in the sunshine. Wikepedia defines transparency in a very broad sense to mean:

"As used in the humanities, it implies openness and accountability. It is a metaphorical extension of the meaning used a "transparent" object is one that can be seen through."

The organizing principles of Title XV seem to imply that transparency is created by making government information available to the public by ensuring publication in a Web portal - recovery.gov. See Section 1525.

&lt;b>&lt;i>Why do we want transparency?&lt;/i>&lt;/b>

The theory behind transparency is not a hard one. By being more transparent government (or any institution) builds trust. Who can colorably argue that being open in most government matters, especially of policy, is not a good thing. (See R.E Oliver, What is Transparency. http://tinyurl.com/by4ppx.) Of course citizens should be able to know how their money is being spent and priorities established. And by having more knowledge, through transparency, at least in theory citizens should better trust their government.

But is that really the way that it works? And is that the way it should and will work under the Economic Recovery Act?

&lt;b>&lt;i>Working towards a more thoughtful expectation.&lt;/i>&lt;/b>

Are we truly defining transparency in the most useful way, and are we clear with ourselves as to what we are trying to achieve in legislating transparency in the Economic Recovery Act? Can we raise our expectations in a more thoughtful way? I would suggest that we are not. We are not setting our expectations for transparency high enough, nor with clarity of purpose that will enable transparency by government to be a sustainable practice. Here are several thoughts that might help.

&lt;i>The Purpose of Citizen Transparency is to Make Better Decisions&lt;/i>

First, we should start by defining clearly what we are trying to accomplish by promoting transparency. Is it enough to be able to say that we are "open" and good things will happen. No.

Isn't the true purpose of transparency to enable citizens to be more informed so that they can help government make better choices? By building transparency, aren't we trying to draw upon the collective knowledge and experience of citizens to increase solution possibilities in decision making? I think so.

I believe that transparency is not simply saying to government - "we don't trust you - therefore we are going to make you publish all of the transactions in which you are involved in a citizen portal." It is more than that. Which leads to the second shortcoming in our expectations - how do we best build transparency and trust?

&lt;i>Transparency Requires More Than Publication, It Requires Citizen Exchange&lt;/i>

Isn't transparency more than the act of publication? Isn't it also discussion and dialogue? It is one thing to create visibility of information, it is quite different to make sure that citizens circulate info "in network" It is the citizen exchange "in network" that creates transparency - not the mere act of publication and search. This is the point. It is the citizen exchange and citizen networks that create value and trust - not the act of publication.

Transparency without the human is simply mechanical. Human elements enable us to make connections that in turn drive info sharing. To achieve transparency the government has to also enable human interaction that allows the data to move, to be exchanged and discussed by citizens and agencies. It is not enough to simply publish it and accept public comment - a structured communication.

&lt;i>Transparency is Created From the Bottom Up, Not the Top Down&lt;/i>

Which leads to the final point. Transparency is created through bottom up exchange, not a top down push of information. Example: Are citizens more likely to recycle because gov publishes scientific data; or because they share that data w each other? This is the sandy shoal for federal governments' legislation of transparency. It is being designed as top down, not bottom up.

President Obama is right on this point. Neighborhoods are the petri dish for effective engagement. As my twitter friend @bashley said so well: The empathy and emotional understanding of the human condition [is] necessary to support citizen exchange of ideas. Empathy and emotional understanding takes place locally - where recovery projects are being implemented.

What this means is simple. Citizens organize in many types of networks. And from a technology standpoint, the design must enable citizens to exchange information at a local level to achieve true transparency - transparency that leads to higher levels of trust and better decisions.

&lt;i>&lt;b>Summary.&lt;/b>&lt;/i>

So the message is simple. First, the purpose of transparency is more than an informed citizenry - it is an active, helpful citizenry; one that expands solutions. Second, transparency is not achieved by the act of publications but through citizen exchange. And third, transparency is always built from the bottom up, not the top down.

This is my hope for the government - that we get transparency right in a way that shows sustainability through results. Once lost, this opportunity will be gone forever.
 
 
 
 Transparency is not achieved through the publication of information and massive data warehousing. This approach to transparency is not only going to be ultimately ineffective, but has a good chance to erode citizen trust. The whole approach being pursued by recovery.gov should in and of itself be critically examined if the goal is to build public involvement and trust. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/per-capita-spending-map-by-congressional-district
 
 
 Per Capita Spending Map by Congressional District
 
 If it can be known, take the amount of spending that goes into congressional districts, (updated over time), and divide it by the population of that district, (because populations of districts are not the same size from one state to another). Grade this spending per capita by color, green seems appropriate, on a map of the United States, a zoom in feature by region would also be nice. One map for all money coming into the district and one map for the stimulus money only. Also a map for the following countries taken each as a whole: Iraq, Afganistan, Isreal, Egypt, Haiti, Liberia. 
 The color gradiant would work like this, $0 would be white. The district with the absolute most spending would be a dark green. All the districts would have white mixed into the dark green as they compare to that most spending district. Say a district received 75% as much money as the most spent in district. Its color green would be 75% as deep, 75% dark green, 25% white. 
 
 It may help in a discussion of fairness, both maps would useful. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/whats-the-business-case-for-recovery.gov
 
 
 what's the business case for recovery.gov
 
 There's about $50M in the budget for recovery.gov. One architecture that's been suggested would end up costing well over $300M. Another option is very cheap, although heavily manual. I have seen ideas ranging from a vague notion of using open source (presumably assembled and maintained by a systems integrator) to leading edge BI tools. Given the options for spending versus value, there appear to be substantial tradeoffs. In addition, there appear to options for acquiring the solution (i like the service-based options versus the custom build). But, i am not sure that there is a program manager engaged who has run a $50M program before. Recovery.gov is an investment in good government, performance and accountability. Every good information technology solution which offers transformation as big as recovery.gov ought to have a business case that: 
 -- articulates measures of success (is it communication of results or achievement of accountability, and how do you measure it?). 
 -- evaluates options to acquire the features and functions, as well as business processes needed to achieve success, 
 -- and tracks or captures benefits recieved. 
 
 
 I worry that there are so many ideas, the likely solution will be high risk and the whole transparency initaitive will die under its own weight. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/oig-stimulus-oversight-and-staff-utilization
 
 
 OIG Stimulus Oversight and Staff Utilization
 
 With over 12,000 staff, including about 7,00 auditors several thousand investigators, and large numbers of IT staff, almost all of whom should be available for temporary reassignment to stimulus oversight since this is one of the highest priorities in OIG history, it is unclear why the Recovery Accountability and Transparency ( RAT ) Board and OIGs cannot use reassigned staff and get off the ground quicker, especially with respect to initial assessmets of recipients capabilities to manage, spend and account for stimulus funds and coordination of federal, state and other oversight groups ( GAO ) stimulus oversight actions.Staff and money are available for such action and effective and immediate OIG action to assess the availability of recipient and administering agency processes and controls to reduce or prevent fraud, waste and abuse, rather than long after the fact reporting of problems, is a critical need and use of available staff rather than delayed staff additions is a necessary action for OIGs and the RAT Board.. 
 
 While obtaining information about projects and spending is very important an even more critical immediate need is to determine the extent to which federal, state and local entities have processes, systems and controls available to administer and oversight the huge amounts of funds intended to be expended quickly. This action can, and should be completed before money is disbursed and while the end recipients of the funds ( contractors, etc. ) may not yet be known in many cases the federal and state agencies initially receiving the funds are known and their capabilities to reasonably assure proper spending can be assessed. While the need for fast spending will not permit full corrective actions if serious gaps are noted some immediate corrective will significantly reduce and prevent fraud, waste and abuse, whereas long after the fact identification of large misuse or ineligible use of funds will be of little value to the taxpayer since little actual recoveries result from such late disclosures. Thus, a crash effort using the best of all available OIG staff and a major change in the traditional long after the fact reporting of problems are needed if the public's expectation of OIG as their protector is to be accomplished.. 
 These and other issues needing OIG attention and improvement have previously been forwarded directly to the Council of Inspectors General and the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board but no response or feedback resulted. 
 
 Hubert Sparks 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/incentives-to-track-stimulus-data
 
 
 incentives to track stimulus data
 
 Offering additional percentage coupon towards purchase of goods or services. Green Stamps kind of thing. Would apply to everything from dental care to IHOP pancakes. The purpose is to get the economy moving which means investing BACK into everything. 
 
 To serve as a magnet to find out where funds are going. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/improve-consumer-confidence
 
 
 Improve consumer confidence 
 
 I think IMMEDIATE sales tax holiday for a period of time for example 6 months will speed up and improve the consumer participation in spending the stimulus money. The FED will compensate the States based on their historical ternd on the Sales Tax earnings. 
 The CEO's Bonus should be tied to the number of people employed and laid off. All the CEO contracts should be voided during the crisis period. 
 
 If this worked and showed some improvements, then instead of giving help to the Banks and other institutions, a massive distribution of money to the consumers and Businesses who will put more people to work should be given a considerable Tax break/incentive in proportion to the number of people put to work. This will foster the growth and consumers will have more buying power ($). 
 US Govet. will collect more tax if more people are employed and reduce their expenses toward the unemployed. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/a-single-solution-lets-not-try-to-bolt-too-many-parts-together
 
 
 A single solution. Let's not try to bolt too many parts together.
 
 With simplicity comes transparency. Just think how the government does things now. Not a single bill can be passed without the addition of some kind of pork brought about by a deal - nowhere near a simple transaction. The is our money and we need to be able to easily identify where every dollar was spent, including all of the side deals after the money is handed out. Simplicity guarantees that the user, any user, will be able to understand what they are seeing or what they want to see, without having to navigate though a labyrinth of poorly designed screens. Good software can do this - handle the complexity behind the scenes so that everything is simple to the end user. 
 
 Most importantly, we do not want to spend tens of millions of dollars building a system to do what is already commercially available off-the-shelf. Furthermore, the bulk of the stimulus money will be spent if we take the time to custom-build something, so that's simply not an option 
 
 Keep in mind that every dollar spent, every single dollar, must be supported by a contract. The true solution is to track the spend by contract at the receiving end. Every dollar passed to a state has to be documented, followed and available for reporting out of the OMB, and every dollar awarded on a contract by the state that received the money, must exactly balance the money granted by the OMB. Simple accounting. If it doesn't balance, we'll know about it instantly, through email or other kinds of alerts. 
 
 Ecteon has been installing contract management systems since the mid-80s. We have installations in federal and state government agencies. The system is ready to go to provide an audit trail of every dollar spent and alerts for any part of any contract spending. Ecteon is 100% American, based in New York; 100% of our employees are American and we do no offshoring of any kind. <a href="http://www.ecteon.com">www.ecteon.com</a> 
 
 "I'm afraid that there may be a naive impression that given the amount of transparency and accountability called for by this act, no or little fraud will occur. My 38 years of federal enforcement experience tells me that some level of waste and fraud is unfortunately inevitable," Mr. Devaney told state officials charged with coordinating the spending. - Washington Times, March 13, 2009 
 
 Our objective, which should also be yours is to prove Earl Devaney wrong - that we will track every dollar and if one goes unaccounted, we will immediately know where to look. 
 
 
 The complete solution already exists, so we won't waste time and money writing a lot of custom code. 
 We won't have to bolt together a bunch of dissimilar systems to create a hybrid. 
 Everything will be on a central common database making analysis and reporting an easy task. 
 Its a 100% American solution. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/knowledge-transparency-and-accountability
 
 
 Knowledge, Transparency and Accountability
 
 Federal Agencies are distributing Recovery Funds to state and local governments and other stakeholders. The potential recipients of the funds must identify projects to request funding and must also prioritize their projects in an effective, transparent fashion. There should be minimum requirements that each project should meet before it is funded and implemented. Minimum standards would vary from program to program but by example, each project must create/ save a certain number of jobs, reduce CO 2 by a minimum amount of tons, increase energy efficiencies, etc. 
 For those fund requests that meet minimum requirements, the recipients and/or the Agencies need to decide which projects provide better desired results over others. Essentially the projects with the better ROI should be funded. Not ROI in the simplest economic form but an analytical model of Key Performance Metrics (KPIs) that takes into account factors important to the specific Recovery program objectives. 
 The projects are assessed against these KPIs and strategic planning of use and distribution of funding is conducted. In order to create true transparency into Recovery Fund spending, recipients and agencies must be able to compile, store and analyze data from multiple sources. Then, and most importantly, they must be able transform that data into knowledge. Only then will they be able to create transparency into how, when and where funds were spent thus enabling accountability to the American public. 
 
 4tell(tm) Solutions, LLC, iPlan(tm) technology solution (<a class="external-link" href="http://www.4tellsolutions.com/ARRASolution">http://www.4tellsolutions.com/ARRASolution</a>) provides performance management tools that enable Federal Agencies, state and local governments, tribes and other stakeholders to create knowledge, transparency and accountability for their decisions relative to recovery funds. iPlan(tm) is a management tool that provides the knowledge to benchmark, monitor, verify and improve performance. 
 iPlan(tm) enables secure, transparent reporting from fund recipients on a weekly basis to applicable Federal Agencies and to recovery.gov. Additionally, it: 
 
 Captures data and creates knowledge 
 
 Enables strategic decision making 
 
 Supports KPI analysis and monitoring 
 
 Facilitates collaboration amongst stakeholders 
 
 Tracks and delivers performance results 
 
 Generates stakeholder and governance reporting 
 
 iPlan(tm) Technology Platform: 
 
 Is provided as SaaS (Software as a Service) 
 
 Easily interfaces and integrates with other applications 
 Provides a web-based front end that requires only a web browser for access 
 Utilizes the RSS web-feed format to publish results to Recovery.gov 
 
 
 
 Delivers timely, targeted and transparent reporting of information as to how recovery funds are being spent Enables transparent collaboration between federal, state and other key stakeholders Defines key performance indicators and metrics to support unified approach for managing results and outcomes of executed projects Drives performance management of stimulus funds through measurement, verification, and benchmarking (i.e., energy, emissions, job creation, ROI, payback, savings, etc.) Creates knowledge which enables insight and visibility into the use and impact of recovery funds Proactively creates transparent, standard model for defining, measuring, implementing &amp; defending financial performance decisions including application, allocation, disbursement and spending of funds Enables knowledge-driven comparisons and scenario planning across strategic priorities Drives cost savings, cost avoidance and risk mitigation Promotes stewardship and accountability 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://www.4tellsolutions.com/ARRASolution">http://www.4tellsolutions.com/ARRASolution</a> 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/semantic-xbrl-for-transparency-and-raw-financial-data-now
 
 
 Semantic XBRL for Transparency and 'Raw (Financial) Data Now!'
 
 Merge and deploy two complimentary technologies for greater transparency in financial data and first implementations within 90 days. 
 1. SEC mandated XBRL is a web based data reporting format, and already in use today with sufficient tools, expertise and knowledge base for its immediate and wider implementation, and 
 2. Linked Data and Semantic Web as championed by Tim Berners-Lee are the defined roadmap of technologies for the next generation of web. These technologies are also coming of age after ten years in academic research and ready to deploy on a wider, scalable basis. 
 Both these technologies are complimentary in nature - XBRL standard providing the financial taxonomies (dictionaries) and Linked Data based on Semantic Web's RDF as the underlying financial data format. 
 For more, please see my blog post at http://hitachidatainteractive.com/2009/04/29/introducing-semantic-xbrl/ 
 
 Lack of transparency and easy access to detailed financial data on Wall Street is one of the major contributors to the financial crisis facing the country and the world today. 
 
XBRL is being proposed to help going forward, such as Mark
 Bolgiano, President and CEO, XBRL US,
 in a March 11, 2009
 XBRL US Testimony to Domestic Policy Subcommittee of the Oversight and
 Government Reform Committee (URL: <a href="http://www.xbrl.org/Home/2009-03-11-XUSTestimony%20to%20Committee%20on%20Domestic.pdf">http://www.xbrl.org/Home/2009-03-11-XUSTestimony%20to%20Committee%20on%20Domestic.pdf</a> observed that -
 
 
 Taxpayers want to know how their
money is being used to fund the financial bailout. XBRL is a standard that
promotes transparency and accountability and can be used by regulators to
perform oversight functions more effectively and efficiently. 
 We can build on this proposal with a Tim Berners-Lee's proposal and bring the power of flexibility of Linked Data with the regulatory oversight of using XBRL standard for financial data. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/common-data-taxonomy
 
 
 Common data taxonomy
 
 Define and enforce a comprehensive set of common vocabulary to be used by all groups reporting the data. Each item needs to be accompanied with a simple definition to make sure groups reporting data under the correct category. 
 
 This is important to ensure data consistency and data quality. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-a-research-management-solution-1
 
 
 Use a Research Management Solution
 
 Use a Research Management Solution (RMS) to track the due diligence performed by the government agencies tasked with distributing stimulus funds. An RMS can systematically capture and organize the unstructured information required for the analysis of stimulus investments. RMS has been successfully adopted by money managers all over the globe as a way to create an open and transparent collaboration among analysts, power better choices for decision-makers, and create a structured audit trail of analysis.
 
 
 
 99% of the world's information is unstructured: email correspondence, documents, spreadsheets, slide decks. While quantitative analysis is critical, many of the most important decisions are driven by human discourse - in words not just numbers. Research Management Solutions transform the cacophony of disparate email inboxes and shared drives into a structured database shared in real time across global organizations. To provide complete transparency for the public, the agencies responsible for application of stimulus funds need to track their internal assessments. These assessments will include large bodies of correspondence and prose analysis. Research Management Solutions can transform the potentially chaotic investment research process into a coherent, organized, and agency-wide effort.

 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/xbrl-the-standard-for-pubic-sector-fiscal-reporting-transparency
 
 
 XBRL: The standard for Pubic Sector Fiscal Reporting &amp; Transparency
 
 The Security and Exchange Commission is requiring companies to report their financial data in XBRL format. The use of XBRL will allow financial documents to be easily searchable, comparable and interactive. In addition, the standard will allow organizations a common financial language for ingesting, storing and shipping financial data around SOA based systems. So what is XBRL? XBRL stands for eXtensible Business Reporting Language and it is being developed by both businesses and government agencies from around the world. This standard will be the basis for financial reporting in the United States. It is based on the open standard of XML and is free to anyone who wants to use/support it. The use of XBRL would stream the financial reporting process between all public sector agencies and thus allow a common standard for all public and private sector organizations to share information in a common language. 
 
 XBRL provides a common reporting language for both public and private sector organizations and would streamline agency reporting. It's already adopted by industries across the globe so we have a proven standard with technologies from all vendors and open communities already in place. October 15th is approaching rapidly and we do not have the luxury of creating a 'new' standard/technology. Many states and locals already have the infrastructure in place. We are ready to go. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/electronic-medical-records
 
 
 Electronic Medical Records
 
 New business will be spurred by a $19.6 billion federal initiative to computerize a health system buried in paper. Under the federal stimulus, hospitals can seek several million dollars apiece for tech purchases over the next five years. Individual physicians can receive up to $44,000 - Business Week Magazine 
 
 If providers participate broadly, those files are supposed to be accessible no matter where a consumer goes for treatment. President Barack Obama says the changes will improve care, eliminate errors, and eventually save billions of dollars a year. There's also a stick: The federal government will cut Medicare reimbursement for hospitals and medical practices that don't go electronic by 2015. - Business Week Magazine 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/positive-id-on-illegal-entries-accross-us-border
 
 
 Positive ID on illegal entries accross US border
 
 Using emerging multisource (radar, video, sensor, etc.) data management technologies develop the capability to detect, identify and track all illegal border crossings. Use positive ID to help apprehend and prosecute illegals. 
 
 The DHS SBINet program is already deploying fences and unmanned surveylance towers to help detect, apprehend and possibly prosecute illegal entrants. Using mutiple sources - including public record data from the US and from emigrating nations, data collected and collectiible by SBINet to obtain a positive ID on persons of interest to radically increase the likelihood of succesfful prosecution and deportation of illegal alliens will drastically reduce the illegal alien problems and significantly increase the security of the nation from the variety of threats posed by illegals entering the coutry. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/see-past-the-metric-with-high-performance-fully-integrated-open-source-bi
 
 
 See Past the Metric with High Performance, Fully Integrated Open Source BI
 
 We need to look past "the Metric" and simple "feature light" and low cost "Solution Scorecards" to ensure government organizations at all levels succeed with their Stimulus Initiatives. 
 
 Actuate has over 16 years of exeperience delivering advanced Performance Management and Reporting solutions to all levels of government. Sample client list is noted below. Our BIRT based product line is backed by the worlds largest commercial open source developer community. 
 
 Actuate solutions for Stimulus Management includes the Actuate Performancesoft Suite - the most fully featured performance management application - which is fully integrated with Actuate's premier Web 2.0 applications and technology, enabling every user to experience Rich Information Applications without limits. 
 
 In addition to providing its customers with unmatched expertise, Actuate is providing its new and current customers a framework of over 250 pre-build Stimulus metrics delivered through its leading performance management applications to help kick start the ARRA process, Actuate customers enjoy the flexibility of leveraging completely free open source BIRT report designers or can graduate to the industry's most powerful and reliable Enterprise Information Application Platform based on the Industry leading iServer. 
 
 
 To achieve total visibility into the performance of stimulus activities, government managers must have visibility beyond their ARRA metrics by allowing users to seamlessly drill down to the Root Cause to investigate and report on the underlying operational details. Actuate has created a full suite of value-added products based on Eclipse BIRT, one of the most widely used and accepted open source projects in the world. Developed in collaboration with the Eclipse Foundation and countless developers, the Actuate BIRT tools offer options for creating rich interactive reports, dashboards and mashups, and more. Visit www.actuate.com to learn more about this rich, collaborative development environment can change the way users view their reports, and provide every user in your organization with the right tool at the right time. 
 
 
 Why BIRT is the best reporting tool BIRT incorporates cutting-edge technology: 
 BIRT incorporates cutting-edge technology: BIRT provides interactivity: Actuate BIRT products extend and enhance BIRT open source technology: 
 For more information about Actuate BIRT visit: http://www.actuate.com/products/birt/ 
 
 Here is a sample list of Government Organizations that Use Actuate: 
 City of Dallas, City of Chicago, City of Dayton , Ohio, City Of Gresham, City Of Long Beach, City Of Olathe, County Of King, County Of Lane, County of San Diego, County Of Westchester, Federal Aviation Administration,Florida Department of Transportation, Greater Cincinnati Water Works, Illinois State, International Trade Administration, Kansas Dept Of Social And Rehabilitation Services, Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, Mecklenburg County,National Nuclear Security Administration, New York City Dept of Health, New York Office Of General Services, New York State Dept of Motor Vehicles, New York State Dept of Taxation and Finance, New York State Division of Criminal Justice, New York State Office for Technology, NYC Department of Citywide Admin Svcs, Orange County California, Port Authority of NY/NJ, Prince George's County, Sacramento Regional County Treatment, Sandia National Laboratories, Santa Clara Valley Water District, Strategic Petroleum Reserve, The US Navy, US Army CECOM Acquisition Center, US Army Corps of Engineers - Rock Island, US Army Fort Stewart, US Army Security Assistance Command, US Department of Health and Human Services, US Department of the Air Force - Reserve Command HQ, US Dept of Energy, US Dept of Energy Bettis Lab, US Dept of Homeland Security - Border Pr, US Government Printing Office, US Marine Corps Logistics Base, US National Guard, US Naval Undersea Warfare Center, US Navy - Combat Direction Systems, US Navy Military Sealift Command, US Navy QFF Program, US Navy Strategic Systems Programs, Washington Department Of Retirement Systems, Washington Headquarters Services 
 
 For more information, visit <a title="blocked::http://www.actuate.com/" href="http://www.actuate.com/"> www.actuate.com </a> or call 1-888-422-8828 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-of-recovery.gov
 
 
 Use of Recovery.gov
 
 It would be nice if the public could also report on expenditure and use of recovery funds. Kind of like the CNN iReporter concept. Positive and negative reporting would be acceptable and may promote "benchmarking". 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-recovery-documentary-series
 
 
 Create recovery documentary series.
 
 Hire a auditor/spokesperson to travel to project locations and give apolitical assessment of status. Interview those involved with project. 
 
 Puts a face to the numbers. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/it-and-information-governance
 
 
 IT and Information Governance
 
 Ensure appropriate controls to visualize, track, mitigate risk, and meet federal regulatory mandates, compliance, and discovery of all data in response to ARRA. 
 
 The government already owns most of the tools needed such as Microsoft SharePoint and MS Office tools to facilitate day to day business operations as it relates to ARRA. Leverage the IT investments already made but add the glue that makes it stick. What the government needs to do better with respects to ARRA is provide IT and Information Governance to ensure the appropriate controls for regulatory compliance, discoverability, transparency, and accountability so that insight into where, how much, when, and why are truly represented. 
 The government needs to implement IT and Information Governance solutions that can Federate with ECM applications such as Microsoft SharePoint and messaging platforms such as MS Exchange and define policies that allow for the Federal Agencies to: 
 1) Implement a Federated Records Management solution that can support metadata capture to maintain the record for auditing/reporting and discovery to provide relevance back to the OIG's within each of the Federal Agencies receiving Stimulus. 
 2) Implement auto-classification, intelligence assistance classification, and auto-categorization policies, such as an "ARRA" keyword for content capture with bodies of email and attachments such Word, Excel, and PDF etc... 
 4) Implement PPM for central collection for all data analysis, visualization relating to the Stimulus funded projects. 
 3) Make this as repeatable as possible. Repeatable process provides ease of use and end user acceptance for the contractors and government employees to utilize. 
 Unify and Simplify! 
 "If you build it they will come"...just don't make it overcomplicated. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/middleware-to-normalize-data
 
 
 Middleware to Normalize Data
 
 Defining the process and data requirements to track and report on stimulus dollars is obviously a very daunting task. What data items should be collected? What format should it be collected in and how frequently should it be reported. How do you know that the data being reported is coming from a authoritative source? Should that data collection be centralized or decentralized? Once the data is collected how should it be made publically available to government and its citizens to view and analyze. These are all good questions that I'm sure very smart people are working on. There is however a common set of services that should be in place to help automate this type of solution regardless of the answers to the questions above. The process of loading data into a database from multiple data sources in a variety of data formats is typically referred to as Extract-Transform-Load ( ETL ). It is probably safe to say that Recovery.gov will need the ability to take information from one or more sources, normalize it in some way to a defined schema, and then insert it into a repository or database. 
 Merging data from heterogeneous data stores into a single, consistent dataset is always challenging. Most government organizations archive information into legacy data systems and each may use a different data storage technology to store the data. The data may also be presented in multiple file formats and layouts making data cleansing an important step in this process. Before the data can be used, it may need to be formatted differently depending on the number of prescribed data formats. The Recovery.gov solution will also need the ability to pull and have data pushed to its data store in a variety of standards based formats including flat files, excel and XML and should require the use of standard web transport protocols such as SOAP, REST and or RSS feeds. 
 So the challenge is finding a set of tools that can help automate and track the ETL process. Most ETL solutions today require a developer to code the transformation logic using either XSLT and or a common programming language such as J2EE or .NET. In the perfect world you would want to find an ETL tool that requires little to no custom code, if custom code is required the tool should provide a common set of API's. You would also want one that is based on industry standards and transport protocols and is simple to use. There are several tools on the market today that fit into this category one of which is SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS). Without writing a single line of code, you can create SSIS solutions (packages) that solve complex business problems using ETL and business intelligence. 
 Integration Services could help Recovery.gov connect to a wide variety of standard data sources, including multiple OLTP sources in a single solution. It can also connect to multiple flat files, XML and Excel files and includes components that can parse and extract the data from flat files, Excel spreadsheets, XML documents as well as tables and views in relational databases. The data consumed by SSIS is typically transformed by one or more of the transformations. Integration Services includes built-in transformations that you can add to clean and standardize data, change the case of data, convert data to a different type or format, or create new column values based on expressions. For example, you could concatenate the first and last name columns into a single full name column, and then change the characters to uppercase. You can also clean data by replacing the values in columns with values from a reference table, using either an exact lookup or fuzzy lookup. For example, the SSIS solution could first attempt to look up a stimulus project name in the reference table by using the primary key value of the project. When this search fails to return the project name, it would attempt the search again, this time using fuzzy matching on the project name. In that example the solution ran the extract lookup first then applied the fuzzy lookup. There is also an SSIS transformation that cleans data by grouping values in a dataset that are similar. This is useful for identifying records that may be duplicates. For example, by comparing addresses in project records you could identify a number of duplicate projects. There are way too many transformations to discuss in detail here but you get the idea. 
 The final step in any ETL process is usually to load the cleansed data into one or more data bases. I'm not sure what database will be selected for Recovery.gov so the tool selected will need to be flexible. SSIS can load data into a variety of familiar OLTP data destinations including ORACLE and SQL Server and can also produce flat files if required. 
 Defining the data collection requirements and process is definitely a daunting task. As the processes begin to become more clear the tools and services to support them need to be flexible enough to change as needed to support the goals of the new administration. SSIS could definitely prove to be a valuable asset in the ETL toolbox 
 
 Transparency and accountability can only be achieved if the data that is collected and reported on is done so accurately. Although there are many steps in this process that need to be managed an integral part of that process is the extraction, transformation and loading of that data into one or more authoritative data destinations. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/adopt-recommendations-on-open-government-from-acm
 
 
 Adopt recommendations on open government from ACM
 
 As many have jumped into making recommendations on how Recovery data should be packaged and disseminated, I'm reminded of some important previous work in this area.

The first is the <a href="http://www.acm.org/public-policy/open-government">ACM U.S. Public Policy Committee (USACM) Recommendations on Open Government</a>. I have a tremendous respect for the ACM as "the world's largest educational and scientific computing society". The <a href="http://usacm.acm.org/usacm/about.html">ACM U.S. Public Policy Committee (USACM)</a>
 "serves as the focal point for ACM's interaction with U.S. government organizations, the computing community, and the U.S. public in all matters of U.S. public policy related to information technology." The policy statement on "open government" first sets the context for its recommendations: 
 
 Individual citizens, companies and organizations have begun to use computers to analyze government data, often creating and sharing tools that allow others to perform their own analyses. This process can be enhanced by government policies that promote data reusability, which often can be achieved through modest technical measures. But today, various parts of governments at all levels have differing and sometimes detrimental policies toward promoting a vibrant landscape of third-party web sites and tools that can enhance the usefulness of government data . 
The recommendations "for data that is already considered public information" are:
 
 
 Data published by the government should be in formats and approaches that promote analysis and reuse of that data. 
 
 Data republished by the government that has been received or stored in a machine-readable format (such as online regulatory filings) should preserve the machine-readability of that data. 
 
 Information should be posted so as to also be accessible to citizens with limitations and disabilities. 
 
 Citizens should be able to download complete datasets of regulatory, legislative or other information, or appropriately chosen subsets of that information, when it is published by government. 
 
 Citizens should be able to directly access government-published datasets using standard methods such as queries via an API (Application Programming Interface). 
 
 Government bodies publishing data online should always seek to publish using data formats that do not include executable content. 
 
 Published content should be digitally signed or include attestation of publication/creation date, authenticity, and integrity. 
 
 
 ACM, as a professional organization of computer scientists and practitioners, is able to speak for a broad range of computer scientists in the matter of policy recommendations. The principles articulated by the ACM have real-world practical implications without getting wrapped up in potentially distracting implementation details and hence should have wide applicability, including to the specific context of recovery.gov 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/standardize-on-postgresql
 
 
 Standardize on PostgreSQL
 
 Now that MySQL is an Oracle product and will therefore be ruined, standardize on PostgreSQL for all but the largest of data needs. Beyond that, let the debate rage... 
 
 A blessing and curse with IT is choice. What we need to move forward are some rigid standards. Much like the shipping industry standardize containers, IT needs to be more rigid with standardization. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/zip-code-searchability-whats-actually-helping-my-community
 
 
 Zip Code searchability: What's (Actually) Helping My Community? 
 
 Primary presentation of data by geography to permit citizens one-click access to a list of recovery programs that benefit them. Present search results from "smaller radius" to "larger radius" program coverage to emphasize direct and specifically local benefits while also showing individual benefits of broadly targeted programs. 
 
 This will quickly identify programs that SHOULD provide specifically local and personal benefits -- and thereby enable feedback about program delivery from those most interested in receiving the benefits. This simultaneously sets expectations and informs each of us -- and enables each of us to hold program managers accountable for expectation fulfillment. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/citizen-usability-and-being-meaningful
 
 
 Citizen Usability and "Being Meaningful"
 
 This inspiring opportunity to deliver accountability and transparency will only take hold in the public psyche if it incorporates insights from the cognitive and behavioral sciences (especially cognitive semantics) to make the information meaningful, useful, and engaging for citizens. 
 I strongly encourage the board to consider the role that psychology, linguistics, neuroscience and related fields have to offer in structuring the concepts that organize information and the interfaces that deliver visualization and interaction to members of the public who want to know how the government is spending our money. 
 For example, the board should consider the Cognitive Criterion for Public Support as a guiding principle: 
 An effective policy must be popular if it is to stand the test of time
and it must be popular for the right reasons, namely because it
promotes the right long-term values in the minds of citizens,
reinforced through the lived experience. 
 This is true for the public interface that tracks government spending just as it is for the national parks, social security, and other social programs. 
 
 In the past, technical experts (e.g. wonks) have developed government solutions in a manner that failed to adequately engage the imagination of the populace. What we need now is to promote civic engagement around meaningful and coherent presentations of government function to promote trust in our democratic system - something that has been sorely lacking for decades. Recovery.org has the potential to capture public imagination if it is put together thoughtfully and takes seriously the role that public meaning has as people experience this program. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/publish-every-single-earmark-state-by-state
 
 
 Publish every single earmark state by state
 
 By showing the public that so much money is being wasted on earmarks it will expose the president's real goal which is to destroy America by converting us to Socialism and eventually to Communism. 
 
 Because the survival of the USA is at stake. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-open-public-integrated-architectures-for-recovery.gov-2
 
 
 Use Open Public Integrated Architectures for Recovery.Gov
 
 The idea is to use a cogent architecture, integrated at the legal, business and technical layers, to achieve the goals, objectives and obligations for reporting, transparency and oversight. 
 
 This is important because it provides a mental model to make faster progress, incorporate many of the ideas and tools suggested so far into a broader reusable framework and because it allows for distributed work 
 More information is available at www.opendialogcoalition.org 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-a-ria-tool-like-flex-or-silverlight-for-interactive-data-visualization
 
 
 Use a RIA tool like Flex or Silverlight for Interactive Data Visualization
 
 The Data Visualization that is most interactive and needed to expose information can only be delivered through RIA's. I personally think <a class="external-link" href="http://flex.org/">Adobe's Flex</a> is the leader in this field right now, but Silverlight and JavaFX are also competing. Some of the charting components through <a class="external-link" href="http://www.ilog.com/products/ilogelixir/">ILOG Elixir's library</a> are very compelling. 
 I have no affiliation or financial interest in these companies. But I have used them successfully in consulting engagements. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/get-the-publics-data-onto-thedataweb
 
 
 Get the Public's Data onto TheDataWeb 
 
 The U.S. Census Bureau has already created an online network of over a thousand public databases. Using open source software, TheDataWeb is essentially the Internet for public databases. DataFerrett browses TheDataWeb and gives data users the ability to create custom tables based on millions of records on the fly without requiring memory-consuming periodic downloads into large, relational database software. DataFerrett has metadata that works with almost all database software and even incorporates statistical intelligence. Report-writing software known as HotReports can display data in web pages with interactive maps, graphs and tables that anyone can use or understand, making data much more accessible. 
 Many federal, state and private organizations such as Harvard/MIT have made their data available through DataFerrett. This program needs a high-level advocate to secure funding and obtain permissions from the holders of public data beginning with federal agencies, allowing DataFerrett to access the public's data live at the source. <a class="external-link" href="http://dataferrett.census.gov/">http://dataferrett.census.gov/</a> 
 
 The more information in the hands of the public as well as decision-makers, the better we can assess the need for and impact of government spending, including stimulus monies. Demographic, economic, health and education statistics could all be found in one place instead of in many separate locations that require users to learn different formats and software. 
 Justification for government grants could include objective measures to a greater degree than is now possible. Expansion of TheDataWeb would ensure decisions for funding of public projects are based on the most current, comprehensive and statistically sound data available. It would make it harder for partisan administrations in the future to suppress any data it did not find politically palatable. Government would be more transparent and the public more informed, the hallmarks of democracy. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/idea-of-tool
 
 
 Idea of tool
 
 A balancing score card for performance-based analytics every 90 days. 
 
 To provide strengths and weaknesses. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/strategy-markup-language
 
 
 Strategy Markup Language
 
 Agencies should document their missions, visions, values, goals, objectives, and stakeholders on their Web sites in conformance with AIIM's emerging Strategy Markup Language (StratML) standard. 
 
 The prospective purposes of the standard are outlined at <a href="http://xml.gov/stratml/index.htm#DefinitionPurposes"> http://xml.gov/stratml/index.htm#DefinitionPurposes </a> -- including enabling agencies to comply with the provisions of subsections <a href="http://xml.gov/documents/completed/eGovXML.htm#202b"> 202(b)(4) &amp; (5) </a> and <a href="http://xml.gov/documents/completed/eGovXML.htm#207d"> 207(d) </a> of the eGov Act, which respectively require agencies to: 
 Work together to link their performance goals to key groups, including citizens, businesses, and other governments, as well as internal Federal Government operations; and Adopt open standards (e.g., StratML) enabling the organization and categorization of Government information in a way that is searchable electronically and interoperably across agencies. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/using-recovery-gov-data-for-analysis-and-prediction-of-mpact
 
 
 Using recovery.gov data for analysis and prediction of mpact
 
 The large volume of data that will be collected on Recovery.com offers an opportunity to apply advanced data analytics to understand the impact, both intended and unintended, of ARRA investments. A key question is the speed with which ARRA investments will start to demonstrate quantifiable return on investment (ROI) in terms of job creation and other tangible measures of economic recovery. The above mission statement mentions for instance the objective of estimating of how many jobs are being created. There could be a role here for fairly sophisticated analytical models that, for example, isolate the impact of ARRA investments on job creation and other primary and secondary measures of economic health at the level of either the state or Congressional District. Understanding and analyzing the link between investments and concrete outcomes (new jobs, improved health) and their explicit (job creation) or implicit (use of public transportation, gas consumption) measurements requires a combination of expertise that includes 
 
 Macro economists Labor-based economist Econometrics Data management skills Experts in demographic and other public data sources Statistical modeling Machine learning for validation of causal relationships 
 
 Analytical models would require temporal (e.g. monthly) data on ARRA investment by category (see different groupings on the Recovery.com site) and measurements of direct and indirect indicators of economic health. In addition, detailed demographic data is needed at the same level to allow controls for non-ARRA related effects. Such models could provide evidence for the relative success of recovery investments and can also provide insight on optimal allocation of certain types of investments against types of districts in terms of their demographic composition. Graphical and causal modeling will further establish a more sophisticated view of the cause-and-effect relationship between ARRA investments and indicators of recovery. 
 
 Recovery.gov encourages anyone to visit the site and share their stories on how the recovery act is impacting them as individuals. This information provides a wealth of insight into how and where ARRA is succeeding and failing. Advanced data analytics models could be developed to mine all such posts and determine the topic discussed in each posting, as well as the sentiment expressed relative to this topic. Further processing of these results could present intriguing trends at the grass-roots level that will allow officials to assess the impact by geographical sector (i.e. Congressional District), by government agency overseeing aspects of the recovery plan, and by the specifics of each spending initiative. This insight, coupled with the more traditional economic modeling discussed above, could paint a very unique picture of the evolving recovery from both a top-down and bottoms-up perspective. 
 
 In addition to the expertise identified above, this analysis of individual feedback would require the following skills: 
 
 Unstructured information management Natural language processing for feature extraction from unstructured content Machine learning in high-dimensional spaces 
 
 
 
 
 Timely analysis of data from recovery.gov, particularly when combined with other data reported by states and regions, will provide both ordinary citizens and our elected and appointed leaders with deeper understanding of the impact of spending on local and national objectives. It will enable us to more quicklet determine what "works" which can lead to more effective use of our nation's resources. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/information-i-would-like-to-see-on-my-state-and-town
 
 
 Information I would like to see on my state and town.
 
 I would like to be able to look at the broad category of stimulus funds, for example education, and look at the distribution of funds by state, by town, to be able to see exactly how much money my town received and how the money was spent. For example, were new textbooks, new hardware, or new software purchased? Which school(s) benefited? How many teacher's jobs were saved or created? 
 (I think it is critical to be able to as accurate a number as possible to know how many jobs were saved or created for each line item.) 
 Each line item, from the state to the town level, should have a unique identification number, a contact number for the project at that level and a different contact number to report discrepancies or fraud. 
 If a particular category of funds was declined by the governor of the state, this should be clearly documented as well. 
 If any projects have a timeline, such as infrastructure projects, it would be nice to see the approximate start and end dates. 
 
 I am sure that many other taxpayers would like to see and track the same information that I would like to see and track on recovery.gov. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/career-coaching
 
 
 career coaching
 
 Can we not have a national clearing house website to indicate where jobs may be available, allowing job/employee matches with direct links to application forms. 
 People who agreed to move to a new location might be able to get a significant tax deduction to cover moving expenses, or in some cases an emergency stipend to help with a move. 
 It would be important to have employers NOT list jobs for which they probably already have an inhouse solution 
 Another function would be to allow industry to sort for geographic areas generating the largest potential employee pool. 
 
 Not only would job shortages be filled quickly, with people able to search for jobs for which they may be qualifed, they could also consider work they never knew existed. 
 This option would allow an accelerated remediation of job/worker deficits and give industry a larger worker pool from which to choose. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/polling
 
 
 Polling
 
 Use Polls and Quiz Polls as a means to show progress on goals achieved. 
 
 No one like to read a lot online...Polls are fun...everyone likes doing them. Polls allow you to take advantage of the interactivity of the web...read, interact, read interact. This will lead to higher engamement rates- which means you will be able to measure the effectiveness of your efforts to drive action offline. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/user-driven-recovery-monitor
 
 
 User Driven Recovery Monitor
 
 To categorize and display specific recovery efforts and have the end product scrutinized by users. 
 For example: 
 Project #000001 Project Documentation: &lt;pdf, doc, txt&gt; Category: Infrastructure and Science Location: Chicago, IL Title: Creating a giant conveyor belt to replace school buses Funding: $10 million Project Goals: to abolish buses Local Rating: 1.2 of 10 National Rating: 0.1 of 10 User Submitted Images: &lt;image of construction efforts&gt; comments (vote up/down image) User Submitted Videos: &lt;flash video of commentary, etc&gt; Comments: this thing sux (vote up/down comment) Sort Project by Highest Rating, Lowest Rating, Funding, Controversy, Local vs. National Disparity, Location, etc. 
 Basically we need a way to view the raw, naked truth about each and every project. And a democratic way to bring the legitimate concerns and praise to the top. 
 
 * People need a way to be involved with their own local projects. 
 ** Perhaps give more weight to people with a legitimate local IP address. Or discern between local/non-local. 
 
 /end brainstorm 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/simple-is-smart-use-plain-language-to-turn-data-into-information
 
 
 Simple is Smart: Use Plain Language to Turn Data into Information
 
 Government often speaks to itself using acronyms, bureaucratic jargon and puffery. If "governmentese" seeps into the recovery.gov website it will distance Americans from the program leaving them vulnerable to biased interpreters. We need to ensure that the reams of data which are being captured about funding and spending the stimulus are displayed in clear, understandable terms. For example, "shovel-ready" is an immediately understandable concept using familiar terminology. Don't turn it into "permit ratified, eco-system investigated, infrastructure-focussed initiative" when it reaches the website. 
 Since graphs are a key technique for conveying statistical data,the principles of good information design must also be followed. Graphs that are so overloaded with information that they are unintelligible will remain unread and useless. Be wary of the pie with so many slices that you can't discern one from another. Previously submitted ideas that suggest the ability to enter a zip code, area of interest, topic, etc. to zero in on information of interest are excellent and will help users of the site to winnow down the content they see. 
 Use the common sense test. If anyone's brother, mother, grandfather or aunt wouldn't be able to understand the data and its significance to his or her life, don't post it or clarify it until they could. As a rule of thumb, Simple is Smart. 
 
 It will make a difference in delivering on the purpose of the website: to inform the citizenry. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/interactive-web-based-heat-maps-to-explore-the-context-of-recovery-spending
 
 
 Interactive web-based heat maps to explore the context of Recovery spending
 
 It's important for the government to identify the
sweet spot
between ease of use and analytical power when making Recovery data
available to
the public. One fairly intuitive method to enable the public to
contextualize
and evaluate ARRA expenditures would be through the use of a heat map.
Users
would be able to select from a variety of factors relating to
population demographics
(e.g. age, educational attainment, household income, etc.),
geographical factors (e.g. proximity to an airport, proximity to
existing sewer infrastructure), labor statistics
(e.g. unemployment) or health data (e.g. lung cancer incidence, heart
disease mortality).
A user weights the factors that are of interest to them positively or
negatively using simple slider bars. Map algebra is then used to
generate a heat map that conveys the suitability of a
given site as a product of all the factors and weights. 
 This resulting raster heat map would be overlaid with other kinds of data: point data of government investment sites or feature data such as the location of airports, rail
lines, public transit routes, floodplains, zoning information, or any other
information that will put spending into context. 
 The simple interface of a site like this also makes it easy for
non-specialists (most Recovery.org visitors) to use, while
enabling fairly sophisticated analysis. Since different factors will be
relevant to different kinds of stimulus spending, relevant variables
can be packaged into different scenarios. You can try this out at mapAsheville's Priority Places: http://bit.ly/ashevillePP 
 
 Accountability. Taxpayers want to know if ARRA funding is
going to the areas where it will be most productive. The thematic maps proposed
elsewhere would only allow users to look at a site in the context of a single
thematic variable, but heat maps would allow users to weight a number of variables and visualize the landscape in the context of all of these considerations combined. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-web-architecture-and-web-technologies-to-make-recovery-data-available
 
 
 Use Web Architecture and Web Technologies to make recovery data available
 
 Access to recovery.gov data should be based on RESTful HTTP use, specifically on using feeds for delivering updates to data, and using HTML/XML for representing the data itself. Our <a href="http://isd.ischool.berkeley.edu/stimulus/2009-029/">Proposed Guideline Clarifications for American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009</a> proposed and implemented such an approach. These clarifications are not complete and should not be implemented exactly as proposed, but they lead the way towards an approach directly rooted in Web architecture and Web technologies. 
 RESTful Web services need some time to get used to them, but they deliver significant value because they do not require a specialized tool set to work with. recovery.gov could serve as a test-bed for making government data available through RESTful Web services, and the lessons learned there could be applied to the bigger project of implementing data.gov. 
 Generally speaking, the Recovery Act has been created to create jobs, foster innovation, and improve infrastructure. Using RESTful Web services for implementing recovery.gov not only would be an innovative way of implementing an open government, it would also help to become more competitive in this emerging area of a Web that moves from traditional centralized IT approach to a more loosey coupled approach of information management. 
 
 Access to the services and data made available by recovery.gov should not be based on formats and/or protocols which introduce unnecessary hurdles. The <a href="http://journal.webscience.org/46/">Plain Web</a> follows the idea that for each task, the simplest tool available should be chosen. The Web is a information system that has been built on the foundations of identification by URI, data access by HTTP, and data representation by HTML/XML. to ensure the widest possible audience, access to recovery data should be built on these principles. RESTful use of HTTP, delivering XML, is the easiest possible implementation in that space, and allows access by the widest possible range of users and devices, ranging from large-scale data access to direct to recovery.gov data from mobile devices, such as iPhones and other mobile Internet platforms. 
 Additional layers of technology (such as SOAP from the Web services domain, or RDF/OWL from the Semantic Web domain) dramatically reduce the number of potential consumers, without providing sufficient benefit to justify such a reduction. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/access-to-funds
 
 
 access to funds
 
 public needs a chart showing where funds are available for application, rather than simply issuing press releases after funds have alredy been awarded 
 
 right now it seems decisions for awarding funds are being made behind closed doors with no application process 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/rich-interactive-diagrams
 
 
 Rich Interactive Diagrams
 
 The current site seems to have several complex diagrams laced throughout, that could really garner high value in using rich, interactive versions of the diagrams. For example, the first featured diagram of green buildings on the home page, could be an interactive Silverlight or Flash diagram that would allow users to "click and zoom" into each key area, view a quick related video on how each section will be executed on, and finally link to the current destination page for further reading. 
 
 Moving to more of an interactive approach in a tactful manner, would not only make the site more usable, keep visitors interested in the data being displayed, but would allow users to "drill down" into live data, view related videos, and then allow them to read further in the current workflow. 
 Having a graceful downgrade user experience in place would definitely be key here - i.e. if interactive plug-in is not installed, allow for current static experience to be shown. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/follow-the-money-or-focus-on-outcomes
 
 
 Follow the money ... or Focus on Outcomes?
 
 Many contibutors will have much better ideas than me on tracking the funds and developing greater transparency in the spending. My concern is the inevitable question: "and what did we get for that?" 
 And the answer should be in terms we can all understand. Luckily, there's an ISO standard that helps - ISO 9001:2008 IWA 4. This standard describes the expectations of a "reliable local government." 
 The really applicable item regarding reporting in IWA 4 is the so-called "check-up system" that is incorporated into the standard. The check up includes 39 indicators of performance, divided among 4 areas of social responsibility: 
 Institutional development of good government Sustainable economic development Inclusive social development Sustainable environmental development 
 What makes this framework worthy? 
 First, it focuses on outcomes. Second, it uses language that citizens understand (which may include Congressional committees!). 
 And since it can be applied in a common reference model, the federal government can choose the 2-4 indicators in each quadrant that ALL stimulus recipients must report on (so you can get a national perspective), with the remaining indicators availalble for use by States and local governments to choose from that may be most meaningful to their constituents. 
 
 
 
 
 Accounting is not transparency. One might think that adding up the numbers tells us something, but I suspect it helps foster hearings, not outcomes. 
 Most citizens will not know nor care how well anyone did at their FACTS II budget execution reporting. I grudgingly acknowledge it will be neccessary, just as it is probably necessary to know how much water was used to put out a fire. But stopping the fire is the important result. Protecting lives and property is meaningful. The cost of gasoline and water, not so much. 
 So my analogy may be silly. But it's meant to point us toward a more meaningful context for knowing "what did we get" for the spending. The IWA 4 framework offers that kind of outcome-based consideration of the results. 
 I am also confident that any good IT service provider can easily build an XBRL reference model for tagging IWA 4 indicators and mapping them to business functional and financial data reporting. 
 Then you can power-up Recovery.gov to dynamically generate outcome metrics by any level of government that a citizen would like to see, as well as revealing the underlying data. But now it will have context and meaning that even my Dad (79) and son (17) can understand. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/communication-is-key
 
 
 Communication is Key
 
 Each state will have some control over how the stimulus money will be applied locally. It will assist the public to know that their interests are kept in mind if there are local 'stimulus czars' to lend a voice to certain areas. These czars will be selected off country groups and council boards. Each state depending on size and money distributed will be allotted various czars throughout their counties. They will have monitoring capability of money spent in their areas and offer 'town halls' to discuss progress being made with the money in their areas. Additionally, each county website will have a stimulus countdown and weekly update on how money was distributed and utilized. 
 
 Most people feel their concerns are not always looked at it when it comes to a change from what they consider the norm. This has been seen quite often in cities when a Base Closure has occurred or a new system is utilized at an already established organization. Town Halls are effective in reassuring the public that their interests are taken into account. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/tell-citizens-who-is-working-on-projects-and-where-the-work-is-being-done
 
 
 Tell citizens who is working on projects and where the work is being done.
 
 Include "on the ground" information about where and how funded projects are performed. 
 
 
 
 As I see it, the ultimate goal of tracking the funding is to have 300 Million watchdogs actually looking at the projects and saying "This project is receiving $X Million of federal stimulus money. Does that seem right ? Are the taxpayers getting their moneys worth - or is something wrong here ?" 
 Any federal, state or local agency receiving stimulus money should report how the money is being spent at the lowest level of granularity in an easy to use format. The weekly financial and activity report can be a template upon which to add more data fields. 
 Example: The Department of Health and Human Services has an item "(75-1516 2009 \ 2010) Payments to States for the Child Care and Development Block Grant - Recovery Act". Include data on how much money was dispersed to each state and then more data on how each state allocated the money for Child Care and Development purposes. Provide the name of every government and non-profit agency that received this money for the purpose of child care. Then report on how many children were cared for, the number of hours they were cared for, the number of adults who cared for them, etc. 
 Under Accountability and Transparency, there is a page with information on reporting Waste, Fraud and Abuse. Included on that page is the following: 
 "As money begins to flow to grant and contract recipients, the public may become aware of potential fraud that should be investigated to ensure the Recovery Act funds are spent properly" 
 Including comprehensive information on the use of these funds at the FINAL POINT OF EXPENDITURE will give citizens the tools they need to assure that the money is being spent effectively and for the stated purpose. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/consumer-friendly-201capp-store201d-to-best-serve-citizens-and-developers
 
 
 Consumer friendly "App Store" to best serve citizens and developers
 
 Recovery.gov should create and promote the equivalent of an "iPhone app store" which would allow recovery data to be easily accessed, analyzed and/or combined with other data so that it could be visualized in a variety of meaningful ways. Recovery.gov seeks to make all recovery data available to as many people as possible in an open and transparent fashion, and in ways that make it easy for them to use the data in whatever way they see fit, to reach their own conclusions about how the U.S. government is spending stimulus money. There are far more people in the general population who can benefit from tools to explore and understand recovery data than there are people within government who are responsible for publishing the data. This would also invite/allow any developer who has the skills to create novel and useful visualizations of data to do so, bringing many more resources to bear than recovery.gov could on its own. The question is: "how should recovery.gov support them?" An "app store" along the lines used by Apple to support application developers and consumers would promote a consumer-friendly environment where one could host and download small, targeted, flexible applications that can be created and submitted by anyone. Features of the "app store" might include: • Simple methods for developers to publish apps. • Pre-publication review and curation of apps -- sort of an Underwriters Laboratory seal of good practice. 
 A directory service for all published apps that enables people to identify apps of potential interest using several methods, e.g.: by searching, browsing, following recommendations, etc. A simple, consistent model for how an app is depicted and described (e.g., logo, sequence of screen shots, right hand column description, etc.) A secure fulfillment mechanism that supports monetization (or not), updates, and analytics. 
 While some apps might have a small charge, many or most would be free. 
 
 Most government web sites are tediously complex. We need a true consumer-friendly service platform that enables all parties, regardless of technical sophistication, to access data, create value through their use and interpretation of it, and communicate value by publishing web services and apps that encapsulate their methods. Recovery.gov's app store should be accessible in a way that is agile, evolutionary, and driven by the needs of the data consumers (U.S. citizens) rather than data producers (federal government agencies). In short, let's make recovery.gov useful to the "average Joe." 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/show-results
 
 
 Show Results
 
 Every federal entity spending the money should be required to track it and show what we got for the money. How many bridges rebuilt, how many pounds of pollution removed from the environment, how many schools repaired, exactly which Park service facilities repaired, how many jobs created, etc. The spending should also be identified by whether its for a capital investment vs operating expense. 
 
 Without this information the nation will have no idea whether the debt created by the spending was worth it. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/ensure-optimum-performance-of-the-recovery-gov-applications
 
 
 Ensure Optimum Performance of the Recovery.gov Applications
 
 Having an effective performance management strategy in place is important to foster accountability, cost efficiency and transparency of the Recovery and Reinvestment Act. CA Wily Application Performance Management (APM) achieves this management strategy, ensuring the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board's mission to sustain accountability and transparency. <a class="external-link" href="http://www.ca.com/Files/Demos/apm_demo.swf">To see the solution in action, click here.</a> 
 When developing, implementing, and maintaining a mission critical web application, important questions to consider are: 
 · How would poor end-user experience affect the success of Recovery.gov and the Recovery and Reinvestment Act? 
 · If Recovery.gov were to become temporarily unavailable, what would be the impact on the American public and how would that affect the perception of the Recovery Board? 
 · When a performance issue arises, will it stall the development process, thus delaying the release of information to the public? 
 · How long does it take to diagnose the what, where and why of a problem, and is there adequate staff and time available to quickly triage the pending issue? 
 
 In order to ensure the sustainability and availability of Recovery.gov, it is necessary to monitor, measure, and manage Recovery.gov, a mission critical web application, using the CA Wily APM solution. 
 
 This is accomplished through the ability to predict problems and monitor all transactions in real-time, 24x7, providing visibility into a complex and typically invisible environment. The visibility that CA Wily APM provides allows the Recovery Board to pinpoint problems proactively, before quality of service is impacted and end-users are affected. When problems do occur, the quick triage and diagnosis will improve productivity within the staff, while increasing the availability and performance of Recovery.gov. The CA Wily APM solution supports the mission of the Recovery Board and assures that accountability and transparency to the public is maintained. 
 
 
 The Recovery Board faces a difficult challenge: with tight budgets and limited staff, the Recovery Board must deliver web applications, such as Recovery.gov to their constituents without compromising quality of service or efficiency. Any problems with performance or availability of Recovery.gov could affect the public perception of the Recovery Board. 
 CA Wily APM products and services allow the Recovery Board to improve citizen satisfaction by monitoring transactions end-to-end, proactively detecting performance issues, and ensuring service level compliance, all in the production environment. The CA solution allows the Recovery Board to focus on delivering pertinent information to the public without having to worry about the performance of the web application, Recovery.gov. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/enterprise-scalable-secure-facebook-type-tool-for-federal-gov-ibm-profiles
 
 
 Enterprise Scalable Secure "FaceBook type tool for Federal Gov IBM Profiles
 
 Increase the productivity, reduce on-boarding time, for new employees Retain Knowledge management of existing employees Help in recruiting new employees with Web 2 tools, (wiki, blog, Communities, leveraging Profiles (Facebook type tool) to do searches, ) works where ever you are Cloud based, access from pc, home, or Blackberry For Employees working details they can access and get to an expert quickly by asking questions and finding out an expert they might not have though about. Helpful in a crisis when employees fill in the profile (history or certificates that might not be in an employee file. ) This might be useful with extemporaneous searches in an emergency (first aid) 
 
 Helps save time and money for Federal Government. 
 Many Federal Agencies are using this open source tool from IBM <a class="external-link" href="http://www-01.ibm.com/software/lotus/products/connections/">http://www-01.ibm.com/software/lotus/products/connections/</a>www.lotus.com (Social Computing - Connections - Profiles) 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/bank-regulations-for-first-time-home-buyers
 
 
 Bank Regulations for first time Home Buyers
 
 The actual Bank regulations about home loan should be change to give more opportunity to the people that want buy a house for first time, otherwise the real estate market will be in trouble for long time, The Goverment should requests a detailed inform from the bank about how they expend the 700 billion dollars and push them to create a credit policy that help the american people to start buying their homes. The construction of new houses, schools, roads and business building are going to increase in the same way because the arise of new neirborghoods. 
 With the present bank's credit policy a working couple that earn around $60,000 can barely cualified for a loan of 250,000 which is the cost average of a house in a working class area. 
 
 it's important because the Real Estate disaster is the origin of actual economy problem 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/green-it-through-virtualization-cloud-computing-and-a-virtual-desktop-inf
 
 
 Green IT Through Virtualization, Cloud Computing, and a Virtual Desktop inf
 
 Use stimulus money to grant new Virtualization, Virtual Desktop Infrastructures, Cloud Computer infrastructures projects Then also use stimulus money to subsidize the infrastructure projects such as: 
 Virtualize household computers, build home computing infrastructure using common tools. 
 Purchase of residential bandwidth for telecommunications companies. Offset infrastructure costs of extending existing telecommunications services to rural area's Acquisition of "Thin compute devices" for home users. which consume less then one tenth of the power standard desktop computers consume. 
 Virtualize power consuming data centers. 
 Energy credits for utilizing virtualization technology Incentives for data center environmental impact reductions. 
 
 
This idea can be incorporated by households all over the nation. All
classes of citizens could use this technology to reduce household
energy expenses, while ever expanding our information technology
infrastructures. Technology will always be with us, and instead of
having a nation that could be further divided by the "Technology haves"
and the "Technology have NOTs "
we should be working to create one technology savvy nation. In 1928
Herbert Hoover had a campaign slogan of "A chicken in every pot and a
car in every garage". We need to modify that slogan for the 21 century
to be "A computer in every house, and energy left to spare"! 
 It could be further embraced by all companies small, medium or large
that utilize any form of Information technology services, such as the
standard desktop computer, or web, processing, and data layer
technologies. These are all very common in today's Major power
consuming data centers. 
 
 Equality is important. Our Nation is important. The Earth is important. Each
one of these concepts alone are import, but together they are vital. 
Everyday I see an increasing gap between the individuals who have, and
the individuals who do not. As time goes on the people involved in
this difference are going to grow up, and that gap will translate to an
even greater technology gap, which will in turn will then magnify to a
economic gap. Utilizing Virtualization technologies is a great way to
reduce carbon emissions caused by using older methods of working on the
Internet. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/tracking-the-progress-executive-information
 
 
 Tracking the Progress - Executive Information
 
 Establish a database linked to the website so that visitors
and users can drill down to more detailed information. 
 a) Have
a public view and an executive management view. 
 b) Mandate
that funding recipients input the use of the funds online. 
 c) The
input information is simple yet can be layered to easily extract detailed
information at all levels 
 Here are some of the input data fields to be captured: 
 w 
Current Action 
 w 
Amount funded - budgeted 
 w 
Date funded - budgeted 
 w 
Amount expended 
 w 
Date expended 
 w 
Category 
 w 
State 
 w 
Agency 
 w 
RFP# 
 w 
Contract# 
 w 
Company Recipients (EIN#) 
 w 
# Jobs 
 w 
Job type 
 w 
Current Status 
 w 
Verified 
 w 
Next Action 
 w 
Next Action Date 
 w 
Completed Date 
 w 
On-time / On-budget? 
 
 
 The reporting of the spending information is too general. It means nothing. There is no reality to the numbers because no
one knows how they are derived. 
 The design will allow interested parties to see the details
of the spending and progress. It also
would be easily expandable to enable the Executive Branch to monitor the
details of all of the allocations. If I
was President Obama, I would be completely frustrated because I could not look
through the details of the process and progress. 
 When we were managing the Y2K program for airports (which
are like little cities), there were thousands of details to track for all
software, all systems, all electronic equipment because most all of it was
mission or safety critical. Project
management software was way too complex and cumbersome to use. The executives wanted to see the BIG picture,
but also have the ability to get immediate detailed status and answers on any
project. Since we had hard deadlines, we
could not miss anything. 
 I created the process and audit procedures that were
used by at least a hundred airports. It was easy and straightforward to
use/implement. The audit portion was
adopted by the FAA inspectors and I provided their training in 1 day. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/the-new-electronic-reporting-system
 
 
 The New Electronic Reporting System
 
 I keep hearing the terms " accountability " and " transparency "
requirements for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ( ARRA) and
think that it will be easy to accomplish. Having worked in public
finance for municipal and federal governments, I believe that the
federal side needs to: 
 understand how local and state finance operates, use the U.S Department of Commerce and U.S. Department of Labor data in assessing know how the demographic and financial environments affect local and state
fiscal conditions, create an information reporting infrastructure using
XBRL, utilize " Service Efforts and Accomplishments performance
reporting, and begin to integrate the environmental (demographic and financial
factors) within localities and states utilizing the old tried and true
"Financial Trends Monitoring System" (aka FTMS) introduced by the ICMA
(International Cities/Counties Management Association) several years
ago. 
The municipal, state, and federal financial technology platforms
(public finance software) must be integrated least we spend more time
" compiling " rather than " assessing and analyzing " all of this disparate data. Why not make
the ARRA information Web 2.0 compatible so that citizens can easily find out
information about ARRA projects , costs , and measurable progress 
 . 
 
 What is missing is " financial information reporting infrastructure" 
for combining ARRA local, state and federal goals , objectives , and
 performance by project and electronic reporting on the " status " of the " Tasks " of
these ARRA funded projects on a monthly basis. 
 Citizens want " context" . In other words, Recovery.Gov should provide
a citizen with a graphical and tabular view of what " the current
measurable economic and fiscal conditions " are within a community
before ARRA (Recovery Act) a funded project begins (a baseline ). I would expect that
some sort of employment, economic activity, and local CPI measurements
would be presented as this "baseline" along with the specific ARRA funded
project GOAL(s), OBJECTIVE(s) matched against each TASK within each
project, and the OUTCOMES of each TASK as well as the entire ARRA
Project. Now the citizen knows where we were before an ARRA funded project began, what is is expected to achieve, and as it will be reported by TASK within each ARRA Funded PROJECT, the citizen would know when a Task is supposed to be accomplished. 
 With Web 2.0, videos could be embedded to show "progress" by
TASK, a graph of the budget being spent and the RESULTS of the Recovery
Act investment. Have the project manager walk through the Task requirements, what they are doing, and what they have accomplished. 
 Recovery.gov would provide a citizen with information
about "WHAT THE CONDITIONS WERE BEFORE HAND" which formed the basis of
the Project's "GOALS, OBJECTIVES and PERFORMANCE MEASURES by each TASK'
which will enable the citizen to assess, by the click of a mouse,
whether the project accomplished what it said it would. This is online
transparency and online accountability . With Web 2.0 citizens could ask
questions or gain clarifications about these projects, which would
establish a dialogue with the local, state or federal government
undertaking the project. 
 Creating a common financial information reporting infrastructure
will also help the auditing and assessment efforts. The use of " status
reporting ", similar to " STAT " reports (see below) would provide more
sets of eyes to interpret reported results. I am proposing that this
financial information reporting infrastructure follow the outline
below, and that the federal government technology and information
efforts be utilized to implement this reporting using XBRL - enabling
all local and state and federal governments to use XBRL for financial
reporting. XBRL ( eXtensible Business Reporting Language ) is an open
standard that supports information modeling and the expression of
semantic meaning commonly required in financial reporting. XBRL is
XML-based and "tags" financial information to specific organizational
components and financial components. Rather than uploading
spreadsheets, public sector financial systems would report these ARRA
projects through unique XBRL templates . 
 In the context of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, we
could start with what is currently published on "Recovery.gov" where
the President has identified five " crucial" objectives. I would use
these objectives and offer some REQUIREMENTS to be met for local, state
and federal governments that receive ARRA funding to meet each of the
President's objectives: 
 OBJECTIVE 1 - RECOVERY FUNDS ARE AWARDED AND DISTRIBUTED IN A PROMPT, FAIR, AND REASONABLE MANNER; 
 REQUIREMENTS FOR OBJECTIVE 1: 
 1.1 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL PROCUREMENT SYSTEMS MUST USE THE SAME
DATA FIELDS. Some sort of information technology project to adapt
current state and local government procurement systems to accommodate
the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) http://www.ccr.gov/ needs to
happen very quickly so that the "awardees" contractor and subcontractor
can be accounted for between the source (state or local award) and the
federal agency. Central Contractor Registration (CCR) is the primary
registrant database for the U.S. Federal Government. CCR collects,
validates, stores and disseminates data in support of agency
acquisition missions. If you are a business interested in doing
business with the U.S. Federal Government, then you must be registered
in CCR. As ARRA money is federal money going to local and state
governments going to small, medium and large organizations (for profit
and non-profit), what is the strategy for ensuring that they are
registered within the CCR? The public sector financial software
publishers (local, state, and federal financial and procurement
software) must be called in to modify their financial software to accommodate the
entry of this organization information into the CCR. Local and state governments do not use CCR. That is why the confusion for MBE, WBE, and DBE certification at the state and federal levels. And if you think that minority-owned, women-owned, disadvantaged and small business have this problem among states with a laborious certification process, how do you think it will be at a federal level with these business enterprises in several databases? This has to have a solution that will seamlessly integrate all of this information. 
 It would seem that within public sector accounting systems the
Accounts Payable (AP) and Accounts Receivable (AR) vendor files
utilized for producing IRS Form 1099s is a "measurement focus" that
could be monitored and reported on a monthly basis. This way, IRS Form
1099s related to ARRA funding should be correct as the management and
internal control reviews would be undertaken monthly as payments are
made. It would allow the ability to correct improper payments
(complying with the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002 and
Recovery Auditing Act of 2002) by having all ARRA funding recipients
implement enhanced improper payment detection and prevention methods.
This way, local, state and the federal Government can better ensure
that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and efficiently on a monthly
basis using this information as a management control review tool. 
 1.2 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL PROCUREMENT SYSTEMS MUST PORTRAY THEIR
RESPECTIVE ACQUISITION PROCESSES. Not every local and state procurement
process is the same, but we need to agree upon "what" should be
reflected to portray the awarding and distribution of these funds in a
fair and reasonable manner. What would that look like? I would think
that the CCR would reflect the "type" of contractor and subcontractor,
by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code, business
size, types of employment created and/or sustained, and some type of
 local or state procurement regulatory compliance metric would be helpful.
Developed in cooperation with Canada and Mexico, the North American
Industry Classification System (NAICS) represents one of the most
profound changes for statistical programs focusing on emerging economic
activities. NAICS, developed using a production-oriented conceptual
framework, groups establishments into industries based on the activity
in which they are primarily engaged. Organizations using similar raw
material inputs, similar capital equipment, and similar labor are
classified in the same industry. Organizations that do similar things
in similar ways are classified together. Classifying and reporting ARRA
information by the "sectors" of the NAICS would enable local, state,
and federal governments, citizens, and auditors to "see" the impact of
stimulus monies through contracts by: 
 A. GOODS-PRODUCING SECTORS: 
 NAICS NATURAL RESOURCES AND MINING SECTORS 
- Sector 11 (Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting) 
- Sector 21 (Mining) 
 NAICS CONSTRUCTION SECTOR 
- Sector 23 (Construction) 
 NAICS MANUFACTURING SECTOR 
- Sector 31-33 (Manufacturing) 
 B. SERVICE-PROVIDING SECTORS: 
 NAICS TRADE, TRANSPORTATION, AND UTILITIES SECTORS 
- Sector 42 (Wholesale trade) 
- Sector 44-45 (Retail trade) 
- Sector 48-49 (Transportation and warehousing) 
- Sector 22 (Utilities) 
 NAICS INFORMATION SECTOR 
- Sector 51 (Information) 
 NAICS FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES SECTORS 
- Sector 52 (Finance and insurance) 
- Sector 53 (Real estate and rental and leasing) 
 NAICS PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS SERVICES SECTORS 
- Sector 54 (Professional, scientific, and technical services) 
- Sector 55 (Management of companies and enterprises) 
- Sector 56 (Administrative and support and waste management and remediation services) 
 NAICS EDUCATION AND HEALTH SERVICES SECTOR 
- Sector 61 (Education services) 
- Sector 62 (Health care and social assistance) 
 NAICS LEISURE AND HOSPITALITY SECTORS 
- Sector 71 (Arts, entertainment, and recreation) 
- Sector 72 (Accommodation and food services) 
 NAICS OTHER SERVICES SECTOR 
- Sector 81 (Other services, except public administration) 
 NAICS PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION SECTOR 
- Sector 92 (Public administration) 
 NAICS UNCLASSIFIED SECTOR 
- Sector 99 (Unclassified) 
 The public sector financial software publishers must be called in to
modify their software to accommodate the classification of
organizations receiving contracts for ARRA work to utilize NAICS
classification codes . As our economy is composed of different sectors,
reformatting our local, state and federal financial systems to report
on both obligations (encumbrances) by NAICS sector and outlays
(payments) by NAICS sector would provide a quick status report on the
specific "sectors" of our economy that are being stimulated. Note that
the NAICS Sectors presented above are at the highest level, for NAICS
codes have more detail. And the CCR, of course, requires organizations
to register their NAICS code. Since we already have these systems in
place, then why not use them to assess the effectiveness of the ARRA
monies? 
 OBJECTIVE 2 - THE RECIPIENTS AND USES OF ALL RECOVERY FUNDS ARE
TRANSPARENT TO THE PUBLIC, AND THAT THE PUBLIC BENEFITS OF THESE FUNDS
ARE REPORTED CLEARLY, ACCURATELY, AND IN A TIMELY MANNER; 
 REQUIREMENTS FOR OBJECTIVE 2: 
 2.1 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL FINANCIAL SYSTEMS MUST USE THE SAME
DATA FIELDS. Some sort of information technology project to adapt
current state and local government financial systems to accommodate the: 
 • The " General Ledger " - create an enhanced a cross-walk between the
United States Standard General Ledger (USSGL) and State and Local
government General Ledger GL (Object Class, Cost Element) . Investing in
this change will allow for easier conversion. If all local, state and
federal governments (hint, hint Federal Accounting Standards Advisory
Board - FASAB - and Governmental Accounting Standards Board -GASB ) were
to adopt the utilization of XBRL standards for government financial
reporting , then t he information could be posted along with a monthly
budget status report, project status report, and a report on the status
of a government's goals, objectives, strategies and performance
measures for the fiscal year . The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission at the federal level and the State of Oregon at the state
level has experience utilizing XBRL for financial reporting. The
federal government financial information technology experts could seize
the opportunity of utilizing the SEC's and State of Oregon's " best
financial practices " with XBRL to provide local, state and federal
governments with a standardized and automated financial reporting tool. 
 • The fund type of the recovery funding will inform the citizen
where the federal money will reside and the accounting and budgeting
rules the respective state or local government utilizes to disburse
payments. There are reporting and usage rules regarding the different
types of funds - similar to the bank accounts that local, state and
federal governments post the recovery act monies. One of the golden
rules of budgeting that may be broken is that of "one-time revenues
going to one-time expenditures". Capital projects utilizing recovery
act funding should disclose the fixed asset valuation before the
recovery act funds are used, and after the recovery act funds are used.
Annual maintenance costs should be disclosed for every capital project
utilizing recovery act funds. 
 2.2 STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS FINANCIAL SYSTEMS MUST BE ABLE TO
INCORPORATE THE RECOVERY ACT PROJECT GOAL, OBJECTIVE, STRATEGY AND
PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT INTO THEIR ACCOUNTING STRUCTURE. State and
local government recovery reports must be designed to enable
management, stakeholders, citizens, and employees to assess Recovery
Act funded programs and financial performance as compared to its goals,
objectives, strategies and performance measures and to use this
information to make necessary assessments and improvements. I would
envision that some sort of presentation of the following would be
portrayed: 
 • Recovery Act Project Name 
• Recovery Act Project Goal 
• Fund 
• Contract Number 
• Awardee(s) 
• Budget by: 
 * Object Class 
 * Encumbrance (Obligations) 
 *Outlay (tie the outlay to jobs created or retained) 
 *Remaining Balance 
 • Recovery Project Plan by Tasks with: 
- Task Begin Date, 
- Task End Date, 
- Task Outcome/Deliverable, 
- Task Cost, and 
- Task Status . 
 Local, state and federal government management would monitor and
manage underperforming Tasks before the project fails. We would let the
public "see" the status of all Tasks in all projects. 
 • Performance Measures : Use the GASB's Service Efforts and Accomplishments (SEA) Model to keep it consistent: 
 - Inputs (like the number of teachers, or tons of asphalt used to repair roads); 
 - Outputs (such as the number of students promoted, or the number of potholes filled); 
 - Outcomes (for instance, percentage of a high school's students entering college, or the physical condition rating of roads); 
 - Efficiency (cost per pupil educated, or cost per pothole filled); and 
 - Effectiveness (attainment of stated goals and measurable objectives). 
 Use a simple "green", "yellow" and "red" coding to assess "where"
planned performance is at. Do not wait until the fiscal year ends in
order to assess performance, assess performance on a monthly basis. 
 • Jobs Created, By EEO-1 Job Classification Category - 
 • Jobs Retained, By EEO-1 Job Classification Category - 
 The nine EEO-1 job classification categories include 1) Officials
and Managers, 2) Professionals, 3) Technicians, 4) Sales Workers, 5)
Office and Clerical Workers, 6) Craft Workers (skilled), 7) Operatives
(semiskilled), Laborers (unskilled), and 9) Service Workers. 
 Is it not practical to report on jobs created or jobs retained based
on these existing categories to allow the public and decision makers to
assess the impact of recovery act monies? 
 Would it also be more practical to post the EEO-1 job goals against
the actual jobs created or retained to see if these goals were met? 
 As a refresher, here are the job descriptions of each classification category: 
 1. " Officials and Managers " includes jobs that require policymaking
and overseeing responsibility. Examples are: executives, middle
management, and salaried supervisors. 
 2. " Professionals" includes jobs that require college education or
comparable experience. Examples are: accountants, architects,
librarians, and teachers. 
 3. " Technicians" includes jobs that combine basic scientific
knowledge, usually obtained through two years of post-secondary
education, and manual skill. Examples are: computer programmers, junior
engineers, and photographers. 
 4. " Sales Workers " includes jobs that primarily involve selling. Examples are: real estate agents and sales clerks. 
 5. " Office and Clerical " includes clerical, non-manual work. Examples are: bookkeepers and office helpers. 
 6. " Craft Workers " includes manual work that requires comprehensive
knowledge of work processes. Examples are: building trade positions,
mechanics, tailors, and bakers. 
 7. " Operatives " includes factory-types duties that require an
intermediate skill level with limited training. Examples are:
chauffeurs, laundry and dry cleaning operatives, welders, and
inspectors. 
 8. " Laborers" includes manual work with no special training. Examples are: garage laborers and gardeners. 
 9. " Service Workers" includes jobs in protective and non-protective
service occupations. Examples are: barbers, firefighters, door keepers,
police officers, waiters, and guides. 
 Local, State and federal agencies need to automate the EEO-1 Job
Category reporting system (i.e., through payroll tax reporting and
benefits paid by recovery act monies) to ensure that the jobs were real
and payments to employees were made . Again, the federal government
financial information technology experts have an opportunity for
developing standards for "payroll system" architectures for
organizations who "employ" workers with ARRA monies by the EEO-1
Category and by NAICS code. Now that it transparency - by "sector" and
by "job classification". The audit community would have the opportunity
to validate and verify this information on a monthly basis. 
 FINANCIAL TREND MONITORING SYSTEM (FTMS) METRICS {see below} 
 When an OUTLAY is made against Non-Personal Services (NPS ) in the
form of a PURCHASE ORDER and/or a Personal Services (PS) salary and
benefit payment, it would be reported "when it happens". A discussion
with all of the public sector financial system software publishers
would be necessary to make this reporting consistent in all of the
systems. I propose all of the systems being modified to accommodate
this. 
 Note that State Employment Security Offices would be involved to assess
the localities' EEO-1 Job Classification Categories. The local and state issuers of
business licenses, who should also be required to utilize the CCR,
would be brought in to assess whether or not they were licensed. The
local and state finance offices would be involved in examining revenues
as a result of their local firms being involved in Recovery Act funded
projects . 
 If one thinks about it, local, state and federal government jobs
(Personal Services) or contracts for products or services (Non Personal
Services) should have all ARRA outlays (payments) also linked to a
NAICS sector and/or EEO-1 Job Classification. This way, there would be
a linkage and alignment in assessing the number of teachers or public
works staff being financed through ARRA money "when payments are
actually made". Rather than waiting to the end of the project or fiscal
year, citizens and auditors could examine and assess the relationship
between the Input (money), Process (job or task or project being
undertaken) and Output being undertaken. 
 OBJECTIVE 3 - RECOVERY FUNDS ARE USED FOR AUTHORIZED PURPOSES AND
EVERY STEP IS TAKEN TO PREVENT INSTANCES OF FRAUD, WASTE, ERROR, AND
ABUSE; 
 REQUIREMENTS FOR OBJECTIVE 3: 
 3.1 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL MANAGERS NEED TO ESTABLISH MANAGEMENT
CONTROL REVIEW SYSTEMS. Some sort of consortium with professional
organizations (elected officials, state and city and county management,
the audit community, state and city and county financial management,
state and city and county technology management, state and city and
county economic development, and state and city and county procurement
management) should be used to develop and distribute some Management
Control Review (MCR) policies and procedures to utilize. The purpose of
a Management Control Review (MCR) is to evaluate the management
controls of a specific activity and determine how well they promote
good management. Additionally, the reviews will help local, state and
federal governments utilize their ARRA monies more efficiently and
effectively, and to provide a reasonable level of assurance that the
process and products for which the local or state or federal agency is
responsible is adequately protected. Rather than reinvent the wheel,
utilizing a generic Management Control Review (MCR) policy and
procedure that could be adapted to the specific environment could be
undertaken by existing professional organizations and made accessible
on the web to prevent instances of fraud, waste, error and abuse. The
typical steps of Management Control Review consists of: 
 1) Conducting a Risk Assessment, 
2) Reviewing Internal Controls, 
3) Report Findings, and 
4) Monitoring. 
 Why not develop an MCR policy and procedure incorporating these four
steps now, automating them through a web based system (with the help of
the federal financial information systems experts) to enable these
"checks" and "balances" to be disclosed in "real-time"? 
 3.2 UTILIZE LOCAL, STATE, AND FEDERAL AUDITORS . With the above
systems already in place, the careful eye, expertise, and audits of our
auditor community would be required. In light of the financial audits
that every local, state and federal governmental entity must do, the
audit community must weigh in on the timing and initiation of the
Recovery Act audits. This raises some questions that need to be
addressed: 
 How does OMB desire local, state and federal governments to audit their ARRA funded projects? 
 Can local, state and federal governments use a portion of the ARRA
monies to have their external auditors perform an audit that is
separate or part of the OMB Circular A-133 (Audits of States, Local
Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations)? 
 What should the specific roles of Inspector Generals at the federal
level or audit officials at the local, state and federal levels be
regarding: 
 Making independent audits and investigations of their agencies'
programs, operations, activities, and functions that are ARRA funded? 
 Overseeing the work of non-Federal auditors performed in connection with Federal ARRA funded programs? 
 Reviewing responses to ARRA related audit reports and reporting
significant disagreements to the ARRA related audit followup official? 
 OBJECTIVE 4 - PROJECTS FUNDED UNDER THE RECOVERY LEGISLATION AVOID UNNECESSARY DELAYS AND COST OVERRUNS; 
 REQUIREMENTS FOR OBJECTIVE 4: 
 4.1 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL MANAGERS NEED TO UTILIZE REPORTING
SYSTEMS LIKE THAT SUGGESTED IN 2.2 ABOVE TO QUICKLY INTERVENING TO
AVOID UNNECESSARY DELAYS AND COST OVERRUNS. Early intervention by
managing projects and examining their status within their financial
systems could be performed by conducting weekly (yes, weekly) status
reports that are transmitted to Recovery dot com along with any
remediation plans. With the advent of XBRL, it is time to have the
FASAB and GASB oversee the development of the reporting of governmental
budget, financial, performance, and project information on a monthly
basis and eventually in real-time. The stimulus money could go far in
investing in a project with the FASAB and GASB in automating monthly
local, state and federal government reporting of financial, project,
and performance results (unaudited) and at the end of the fiscal year
post the audited results online. Take the guessing out of it. Use the
technology and put accountability on line. 
 4.2 REVIEW AND/OR APPROVAL BY FEDERAL AGENCIES OF LOCAL, STATE AND
FEDERAL REMEDIATION PLANS MUST BE AUTOMATED. The success of the Obama
campaign using new media and participatory democracy techniques has set
high expectations for those same techniques being used in actual
governing. I think the principles and practices of Web 2.0 can help
bring increased ARRA transparency, public involvement and reduced cost
to government. How will the federal, state and local technology experts
integrate the aforementioned as a mechanism to quickly inform
management and to make a decision to take remedial action? Web 2.0 must
be used to help local, state and federal government ARRA projects
easily report on their status, communicate issues and challenges, and
collaborate with federal officials in resolving issues and challenges.
I would imagine that a web-based form on Recovery.gov where a local,
state or federal agency completes the information on an ARRA funded
project could make decision-making more "fact-based". Remember,
however, that unlike program and service Web 2.0 transactions,
government financial transactions and reporting requires additional
internal controls. Perhaps the Federal Systems Integration Office
(FSIO) could develop some "ARRA Web 2.0 reporting standards" for local,
state and federal governments to utilize. 
 OBJECTIVE 5 - PROGRAMS MEET SPECIFIC GOALS AND TARGETS, AND CONTRIBUTE TO IMPROVED PERFORMANCE ON BROAD ECONOMIC INDICATORS. 
 5.1 LOCALITIES AND STATES SHOULD USE THE FINANCIAL TRENDS MONITORING
SYSTEM AS A COMPONENT OF THEIR PERFORMANCE REPORTING. The Financial
Trend Monitoring System (FTMS), adapted from the system developed by
the International City/County Management Association (ICMA) ,
"identifies the factors that affect financial condition and arranges
them in a rational order so that they can be more easily analyzed and
measured." 
 5.2. ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS 
 5.2.1 COMMUNITY NEEDS AND RESOURCES 
 • Population 
• Density 
• Age 
• Income 
• Property value distribution 
• Home ownership 
• Vacancy rates 
• Crime rate 
• Employment 
• Business activit y 
 The local, state and federal governments need to know what were the
community needs and available resources based on the indicators above
"before" and "after" the Recovery Act investments. Community needs and
resources influences the demand for services as well as the capacity to
generate revenues to fund these services. Add to this the cause and
effect relationship of the financing of projects for medical care,
transportation, education and green technology and citizens would have
a clearer view of "what it is" we are trying to accomplish and "what
the anticipated effect' we expect these projects to have on the
variables cited above. I would expect that ARRA projects would address
their anticipated impact on anticipated trends of population, density,
age, income, property value distribution, home ownership, vacancy
rates, crime rate, employment and business activity in the community. 
 5.2.2 INTERGOVERNMENTAL CONSTRAINTS 
 • Intergovernmental mandates 
• Tax restrictions 
 The local, state and federal governments need to identify what were
the intergovernmental constraints based on the indicators above
"before" and "after" the Recovery Act investments. 
 Are there any lessons learned or were laws, rules and regulations streamlined as a result of these ARRA investments? 
 Will Recovery.gov track any new legislation at the local or state or
federal level that must be modified in order to achieve a ARRA project
goal or objective? 
 These are a few value-added measurements that could make Recovery.Gov more informative. 
 5.2.3 DISASTER RISK 
 • Potential for natural disaster 
• Local preparedness 
 Local, state and federal government need to assess their disaster
risk before they received the Recovery Act investment and determine
whether they were addressed as a result of receiving these monies. Mind
you, if there is a natural disaster in a town, borough, neighborhood,
city or county, then they are going to see whether local preparedness
was addressed by local and state and federal emergency management
agencies to be funded by ARRA monies. 
 5.2.4 POLITICAL CULTURE 
 • Attitudes toward taxes, services and political processes 
 Local, state and federal governments have a once in a lifetime
opportunity to assess the public's attitudes as to whether these
projects were efficiently implemented, effectively met their
performance measures, and whether attitudes about government have
changed. Feedback is needed. 
 5.2.5 EXTERNAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
 • National &amp; regional: 
 o Inflation 
 o Employment 
 o Market changes 
 Local, state and federal governments need to tailor the economic
analysis of specific areas and uses the NAICS data to assess expansion
or contraction by sector of the local e conomy, local disposable income, local housing, 
and local employment . The federal government should work closer with local
and state governments in assessing the components of the local Consumer
Price Index (CPI) as a part of community and economic development
initiatives. Measurements of the impact of other federal aid (from the SBA, EDA,
MBDA, etc) should also be shared with local and state officials and linked to the FTMS model of the locality to assess any cause and effect relationships. The
federal, state and local governments should post this on a Geographic
Information System (GIS) so that the public can see where we are based
on empirical data. 
 I would expect that a database of organizations (public, private or non-profit by NAICS code) that undertook ARRA
related projects that created or retained jobs within a locality would
be posted on Recovery.gov . As the CPI may be influenced by
uncontrollable variables (trends of population, density, age, income,
property value distribution, home ownership, vacancy rates, crime rate,
employment and business activity) in the community, that could be
empirically shown on the website. Working with the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics (BLS) and the colleges and universities that report CPI
data, as well as the local and state economic development, housing,
criminal justice, health care, transportation and education agencies to
provide their assessment would make this invaluable. 
 5.3. FINANCIAL FACTORS 
 5.3.1 REVENUES 
 • Growth 
• Flexibility 
• Elasticity 
• Dependability 
• Diversity 
• Administration 
 Local and state governments need to carefully assess their revenue
streams now and in the future . After all, investments in Going Green,
transportation, education, automated health records, job training,
affordable housing, and other areas need to assess when the return on
the investments will occur , and how much it will impact the future
government revenue stream . 
 5.3.2 EXPENDITURES 
 • Growth Priorities 
• Productivity 
• Effectiveness 
• Mandated costs 
 Local and state governments must utilize their comprehensive plans
 and GIS to project growth. From these projections, plans must be
developed which take into account the cost of implementing , the cost of
no growth , and the cost of a decline in growth . This will have an
impact on the future role of local and state government. 
 I am
envisioning the development of a " Stats " systems, where
program/division/department/agency heads and representatives meet
regularly with executive officials to discuss performance data and
develop strategies to improve or sustain the performance of each
participating program/division/department/agency. Meetings would enable
program/division/department/agency heads, staff, and executive
officials to review and analyze measurements of
program/division/department/agency performance and efficiency. A stats
system would be developed on Recovery.gov based on the idea of holding
program/division anddepartment/agency directors responsible for ARRA
project results through a regular review of performance data. If any
ARRA funded programs or services were not performing as expected, then
strategies would then be developed to quickly correct any problems. 
Because a stats system relies on real-time access to operational level
data, and resources to develop strategies to quickly correct problems,
it requires an investment in technology and commitment from executives. 
 Stats systems at times would be viewed as confrontational as
program/division/department/agency directors would be " put on the spot" 
for poor performance. This however, is not their intent. The purpose of
a stats program is to f ocus decision makers attention on operational
level data to identify and correct unwanted trends before they become
big problems. ARRA Stats systems would be most effective when
operational reviews were connected with achievement of defined ARRA
funded project goals and objectives. 
 5.3.3 OPERATING POSITION 
 • Operating results 
• Fund balances 
• Reserves 
• Liquidity 
 Local and state governments must assess the impact of the Recovery
Act investments on their respective operating results, fund balances,
reserves , and liquidity . Local and state government financial policies
and financial plans must run some scenarios on these measures from
which to base decisions upon and to discuss with citizens, taxpayers,
ratepayers and bondholders. Moody's, Standard and Poor's, and Fitch
Financial utilize similar financial metrics to assess credit
worthiness. If ARRA monies have a direct impact on a local or state
government's credit worthiness, then why do we not model and report on
it on Recovery.gov on a monthly basis? 
 5.3.4 DEBT STRUCTURE 
 • Pension obligations 
• Pension assets 
• Post employee benefits 
 Local and state governments adherence to GASB Statement 50 that
amended GASB Statements No. 25, Financial Reporting for Defined Benefit
Pension Plans and Note Disclosures for Defined Contribution Plans, and
No. 27, Accounting for Pensions by State and Local Governmental
Employers, by requiring: 
 Disclosure in the notes to the financial statements of pension plans
and certain employer local and state governments of the current funded
status of the plan--in other words, the degree to which the actuarial
accrued liabilities for benefits are covered by assets that have been
set aside to pay the benefits--as of the most recent actuarial valuation
date. 
 Local and state governments that use the aggregate actuarial cost
method to disclose the funded status and present a multi-year schedule
of funding progress using the entry age actuarial cost method as a
surrogate; these governments previously were not required to provide
this information. 
 Disclosure by local and state governments participating in
multi-employer cost-sharing pension plans of how the contractually
required contribution rate is determined. 
 The status of local and state governments fiscal capacity to meet these obligations 
must be disclosed to citizens along with the fiscal impact on the cost
of future government service. Citizens will probably ask whether the
federal government is fully disclosing the future cost of federal
pension liabilities on its financial statements. This is an issue that
cannot be swept under the rug. 
 5.3.5 CONDITION OF CAPITAL PLANT 
 • Maintenance of effort 
• Capital outlay 
 The useful life of capital assets needs to be carefully examined at
the local, state and federal level. Citizens will want to know whether
we are underfunding capital asset maintenance within our current
operating budgets . Perhaps now is the time for local, state and federal
governments to enhance the budget descriptions of capital asset
maintenance that is funded in the operating budgets in terms of its
expected impact on the capital assets useful life. As the commercial
says, "you can pay me now or you can pay me later". It would be
extremely is unfortunate if the bulk of these Recovery Act investments
did not go for bringing lagging capital asset conditions to a locality
or state or federal government's published asset condition standard.
Does your government have capital asset condition standards in its
annual capital and fixed asset inventory? 
 If these tools were used and implemented in a standardized manner
then it could be used to pull together the pertinent information from
the local or state government's budgetary and financial reports, mix it
with the appropriate economic and demographic data, and creates a
series of local government financial indicators that, when plotted over
a period of time, can be used to monitor changes in financial condition
as a result of receiving Recovery Act money. 
Note that the financial indicators 
 include such things as: 
 cash
liquidity, level of business activities, changes in fund balance, and external revenue dependencies. 
The FTMS can also assist the elected
officials in a ssessing how the recovery act monies affect their
long-range policy priorities and can provide a logical way of
introducing long-range considerations into the annual budget process 
 . 
 
Using web based technology for financial, performance and project reporting as
well as audited financial statements utilizing XBRL on internet would
create accountability. Local, state, and federal government financial information ought to be XBRL based to enable citizens to view and assess it, There are a lot of government finance officers who question the effectiveness of preparaing a Performance Accountability Report (PAR) at the federal level or a Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) 
 at the local or state level - Web 2.0 dialogue and feedback from citizens would enhance the discussion. Perhaps partnering with high schools, colleges and universities in developing courses in how to read and understand a PAR or a CAFR would give government the feedback it so desparately deserves (not to mention inform our citizens what this information really tells you). 
 
Mapping these projects on a Geographical
Information System 
 (GIS) along with the project status would create millions
of eyes on the prize. Can you imagine how mapping unemployment data by a locality would affect the selection of one of these ARRA funded projects - before the project began, and after it was completed? 
 
 I have listened to all of the "planning" and "integration"
discussions about the implementation, reporting and monitoring of the
ARRA from a conceptual level. I offer some implementation details at
the logical level that would help the local, state and federal
financial information systems experts create an "data architecture" at
the physical level and fund the modification of existing financial and
procurement systems to collect and report ARRA information through a
 Web 2.0 approach. The shift will be from the federal government's service-oriented architecture (SOA) to Web-oriented architecture (WOA). 
 If you have had the opportunity to listen to NPR " All
Things Considered " program called REMAKING MICHIGAN, RETOOLING DETROIT ,
then I think that you would see how utilizing my recommendations would help
citizens monitor and track progress that the State of Michigan is
undertaking to restructure its economic base and how Detroit is
retooling its business base. For those of you who read the
 Comprehensive Annual Financial Reports (called CAFRs ) of local and
state governments, you know that CAFRs contain a required statistical section of the " Top
Taxpayers " and the " Top Employers " of a city, town, county, state or other governmental entity (school, college, university, public utility district, special taxing district, public transportation agency, stadium authority, ect.). If local and state governments were
to report this information by NAICS codes (sectors of their local economy) and compare the changes in the NAICS composition of these
sectors for the past 10 to 15 years, then it would indeed show how the
economic sectors have been changing (like what has happened in Michigan and its localities). Here again, state and local government has this
information and must use it more strategically. If the financial information infrastructure could be developed to caputure this information every fiscal year, then policy would indeed become "fact-based" rather than "intuition-based". The federal government could also examine this information and enhance it with Bureau of Labor Staistics reports and other economic data. 
 What is the impact that
these ARRA funded projects expected to have on the FY 2009 and FY 2010
" Top Taxpayers " and the " T op Employers " of local and state governments
that prepare CAFRs? Again, if the federal government better understood local and state finance, then they would know why this is related. 
 Why re-invent the wheel? Make a decision on the tools, collaborate
with professional organizations and financial/procurement public sector
software publishers, automate the reporting, and accountability and
transparency awaits. These are actions that the federal government needs to lead,
and for some aspects, invest in technology and enhanced reporting to
make it accessible. But unless you have local and state financial people involved, it is not going to work. For example, most of these "planning sessions" for the ARRA are with federal agencies and federal finance people while the people who deliver the service, account for it in their financial systems, and report its results are the local and state finance officers. And what is the federal government providing them? 
 It is that simple. "Just Do It". 
 
 
 
 There seems to be a "federal perspective" bias about the ARRA. This idea supports the local and state perspectives as we are not at the table, we have to have balanced budgets, we have to modify local or state legislation, our accounting systems operate under GASB pronouncments and not FASAB pronouncnements (which the feds do not understand), and our financial information system architecture requires some significant modifications. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-community-sized-buckets-of-money
 
 
 Use Community-Sized Buckets of Money
 
 One observation I've had in 44 years of citizenship is that the government tends to engage in grand visions with equally grand buckets of money that seem to get locked under the control of a small number of stakeholders. When a billion dollars is thrown around for a good-works venture here, and a hopeful-initiative there, it's too easy for a million here and $10 million there to be squandered. Inevitably, too many layers of management are put into place, with far too many people with bureaucratic mindsets. Factor in consultants, lobbyists, 'training off-sites', meetings, planning studies, and before you know it, the power of $1 billion to do any good has been whittled down to $100 million or less. 
 My broad suggestion is for the government to look for ways to break up the stimulus money into small buckets, and put these buckets on the front lines of the economic crisis: communities. Get some visionary people who aren't afraid to take risks, who don't care about making GS-15 or SES, who aren't waiting out their next performance report hoping for another 4% raise. Put them in charge. Have them seek out good ideas on small scales in tightly focused areas. 
 In fact, I have my own idea for creating a lot of value at the neighborhood level. I own a bunch of rental houses in a low income area, and the kids there are always pestering me to borrow tools to fix things, do yardwork, etc. These kids are too poor to have lawnmowerd, weed whackers, hedge clippers, but if they did, they'd fan out for two miles in each direction grooming the heck out of Manassas, Virginia. I'm working with the City to get a nominal amount of money to do micro-loans to get these kids some used yard tools they can use to make money. But I'd love to see it expand beyond that. How about a neighborhood program for tool rentals, teaching home maintenance, basic home repair, lightweight skills that are ALWAYS needed, and skills that could lead to other opportunities. I'm looking for $1000.00. Yup. I could leverage the heck out of $1000.00. So could one million other entrepreneurially minded community "spark plugs". Total cost: $1 billion. I believe it would be easier to manage how and where the money is spent if the buckets are kept small, the oversight light, and the financial reporting simple. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/beyond-green-itTM
 
 
 Beyond Green IT(tm)
 
 What is the Idea? 
 
 A few years back, Green IT was primarily concerned with the relative environmental friendliness of the components inside the computers, the processes used to make those components, and the energy efficiency of the units. 
 
 More recently, Green IT is concerned with power usage in data centers. That's because the aggregate carbon footprint of Data Centers in the US is greater than the airlines, and that footprint continues to grow as more people go online, and as more and more companies institute policies to reduce travel for all but the most critical business meetings, and utilize sophisticated video conference instead. 
 
 The power consumption of data centers and their related carbon footprint is huge because the servers, routers, and switches suck up a tremendous amount of electricity and generate a tremendous amount of heat which, in turn, requires substantially more electricity to run the cooling units to dissipate that heat. 
 
 So far, greening the data infrastructure, or IT, has been concerned with efficiencies that can be obtained within the existing mind-set of servers, routers, copper wires, and air conditioners. Typical initiatives include raised floors, the placement of fans, reduction of the number of underutilized servers, cogeneration, insulation, and even the placement of server farms in modular trailers in close proximity to hydroelectric facilities in the cold north (where air conditioning is free). 
 
 Some of these ideas are quite basic, albeit expensive to implement. For example, a recent article in <a href="http://www.environmentalleader.com/2009/04/30/the-key-to-major-data-center-savings-concrete-floors/"> Environmental Leader </a> cited "major savings" to be obtained by reconfiguring a data center with overhead air-conditioning inputs and a concrete floor, which provides a cold mass that tends towards the cool side and thus draws the cold air down through the server racks, cooling the equipment as the cold air obeys the laws of physics, thereby reducing the electric load to drive cold air with fans. 
 
 Yet all of these solutions are rather like polishing a 1959 big fin Cadillac, with the intention that a smoother surface will deliver better gas mileage. 
 
 What's needed is a solution that will reduce the number of circuits by aggregating them onto fewer data lines. A smart solution would also reduce or eliminate as much equipment as possible, while introducing a technology that requires less space, less electricity, and deploys new equipment that generates substantially less heat. As an additional benefit, the nature of this technology is that it would also make the network more secure and distribute data across the local network (with "local" redefined in terms of miles) without, in most cases, any need for additional data centers at each node. 
 
 Benefits: 
 
 1) Installation: This idea, Beyond Green IT(tm), is important because it can reduce the cost of installation by as much as 40%. If a legacy installation of switches, routers, and cabling for a new data center were to cost $10,000 million, the cost to install this new idea, Beyond Green IT(tm), would be $6,000. 
 
 2) Reduced Power Consumption: Due to efficiencies of this idea, once installed, Beyond Green IT(tm) will dramatically cut the power consumption and hence the operational costs. as expressed in the electric bill would be reduced by as much as 80%. If the power bill for a legacy installation had previously cost $10,000 per month, it could soon be reduced by this idea, Beyond Green IT(tm), to a mere $2,000. 
 
 3) Carbon Footprint, Carbon Credits: Reduced power consumption equals reduced carbon footprint. Once carbon legislation is enacted, all concerns will be looking for ways to cut carbon. In most cases, cutting carbon will be regarded as an outright capital expense to be earned back, or as the least expensive alternative between action and the punishing cost of inaction. 
 
 For example, a dirty industry would need to invest in scrubbers to pull carbon from their smokestacks. In contrast, this idea, Beyond Green IT (tm) , will deliver a substantial savings in the installation phase, and with regards to routine operation, will result in a reduction of both power costs and carbon footprint. The operational savings, coupled with the capital value of reduced carbon emissions will deliver a positive return that can be applied to other carbon reducing initiatives - which means that, by first implementing Beyond Green IT (tm), a company's first play in the carbon market can be viewed as a money maker that can be used to defray the cost of other, otherwise more costly, carbon reduction measures. 
 
 Why is the Beyond Green IT (tm) idea important? Because it is a sure path to huge power savings and substantial carbon reductions, with an almost immediate ROI. 
 
 I'm on NDA right now, so I cannot be more explicit. 
 
 If you are interested, please email me at: 
 
 beyondGreenIT@jonwarrenlentz.com 
 
 Give me your: name, position, company, email, website, and phone number, and I will respond with details as soon as I have the signed contract. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/show-more-ideas-on-a-page
 
 
 Show more ideas on a page
 
 On this site, please show more ideas on one page. The default page is only showing three ideas. With this dialogue lasting as long as it will, this could get out of hand quickly. 
 
 Will reduce duplicate or "similar" entries, as well as "comment politics" (rating schemes, autmoated response, etc). 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/credibility
 
 
 Credibility
 
 Show you are listening by stepping outside of the Washington, DC political/lobbyist mentality. Regular Americans will be turned away if the site is dominated by arguments between partisans. Talk to people, do some usability testing, and find out what ordinary people care about, then put those questions or comments on the site, along with honest answers. Anything less will look like propaganda or the same old partisan arguments we're sick of hearing. People are angry, and they want to know who speaks for THEM , not the bankers or the car companies or the healthcare industry. 
 
 To establish credibility with the public and overcome cynicism. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/improve-this-website
 
 
 Improve this website.
 
 Have an open discussion that has no categories. Most opinions are general and have to do with a concept. If our government can't pay attention to us when we e-mail them are they really going to look here? 
 
 Most people that I talk to feel far from cared for by our government. If you talked about coal power to get elected and now you are against it...that is a lie and it should be put out there as a lie to us here in coal country that has a depression every year and since we have the highest permanent unemployement rates why take this away from us too???? 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/open-source-the-implementation-to-stop-big-it-ripping-off-the-gov-i-e-us
 
 
 Open Source the Implementation to stop Big IT ripping off the gov i.e. US
 
 To
mandate all code and configuration docs etc... to be used to create
the many solutions will be Open Sourced example like
http://jakarta.apache.org/. 
 
This
way in the Theme of Transparency the solution will itself be
transparent. This will allow all the bright minds to ensure the
solution and implementation is done correctly and allow the
implementors to get help from the community. This idea will only
drive down the cost of the project since outside developers can
contribute. 
 
Enough
said on the Open Source
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source_software to read more. 
 
Can
someone argue the point that if a company is against having the
solution Open Source that this means that when they bid they have an
intent to try to siphon money from the project i.e. something to
hide. 
 
Lets
face it its our taxpayers money let us help and stop it from being
pilfered. 
 
 To
keep the big companies who got us here in the first place honest. To
allow for the community of brilliant people to contribute and to lead
by example, when its said Transparency this would be a true
Transparent undertaking. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/comprehensive-security-approach
 
 
 Comprehensive Security Approach
 
 The government should consider key trusted security advisor and security partner/s in monitoring expenditures and using recovery funds. 
 
 The government must consider the likelihood of piracy and theft of both direct capital as well as information capital as it carries out its recovery tasking. All levels of security must be accounted for and employed including Governance and Compliance at a high-level as well as securing People and Identity, Data and Information, Applications and Processes, Networks Servers and Endpoints, and most certainly Physical Infrastructure. While the government does indeed have home-grown capability in each area, it can certainly benefit from corporate knowledge, strategies and products both for best-practices as well as cost-saving security tools. 
 Critical to leveraging the corporate arena will be finding actual corporations that provide best-of-breed products and services and resources that have both a strong R&amp;D backbone as well as real-world implementation in ideally a global setting. The two must co-exist for effective continual security as the world of cyber-crime and cyber-terrorism methodologies is in constant flux. 
 So which companies exist that provide such comprehensive security? There really is no actual silver bullet as being able to completely overhaul existing security infrastructure is cost-prohibitive. However, being able to leverage a corporation with deep security knowledge, frameworks to integrate security tools that are cross-vendor rather than straight rip-and-replace, as well as significant incumbency and experience does fortunately exist. IBM immediately comes to mind as a clear-cut leader. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/balance-sheet-showing-jobs-loss-and-gained-1
 
 
 Balance sheet showing jobs loss and gained
 
 The stimulus bill was designed to add billions of jobs to our ecomomy. A simple balance sheet showing cost of specific government program, jobs projected by program and actual jobs created by program is neccessary. Add to this balance sheet per job cost to tax payers to create this job. And describe in detail why this is a NEW job and how it will turn into a permanet job for someone. 
 
 Those programs not producing jobs within each year after stimulus bill need to be eliminated as the balance sheet is reviewed. And the results need to be published by the media along with the pictures of congressman, senators, and Presiden Obama's picture next to the report. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/geospaital-enabled-live-data-feeds-gis-services
 
 
 Geospaital enabled live data feeds (GIS Services)
 
 Geospaital enabled live data feeds (GIS Services), similar to what DC Government has made avaialable at: 
 <a href="http://data.octo.dc.gov/"> http://data.octo.dc.gov/ </a> 
 Transparency and Accountability starts with open access to authoratative data in an actionable format. The DC Government has begun to publish relavent data as "live feeds" in many formats including XML, ATOM, GEORSS, KML, etc. These Live data feeds make it possable to develop applications driven by the data to disminiate information. One example is the MPD Crime Map Site: <a href="http://crimemap.dc.gov">http://crimemap.dc.gov</a> , built off of the crime data feeds citizens can see and comapare crime in the areas that effect them. Geospaital is neccessary, everything is about place. 
 
 This idea is important because in one week's time tapping only a small audiance all ideas can not be explored. Providing the raw data as feeds for developers will allow for many future solutions, the general masses will selcet what they like best through popularity (a killer app like facebook happens because the masses imbrace it, nothing else). 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/money-for-what
 
 
 Money for what?
 
 Lets make sure to publicize what organizations must do in exchange for bailout money. If GM must close dealerships in exchange for bailout money, lets disclose all the details so everyone understands it's not money for nothing (can they really close dealerships they don't even own?) 
 
 Giving someone more money if they've demonstrated a lack of responsibility with money without sufficient guidance and controls is a recipe for failure. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/child-tax-credit-1040-income-taxes
 
 
 child tax credit 1040 income taxes
 
 As the law reads right now the child tax credit and additional child tax credit and additional child tqax credit can be used by people who do not have a social security number. In fact they are not citizens of the US. The law needs to be changed that says only people and children under 17 that have a valid Social Security Number are eligible for this credit. This credit should be for US citizens and permanent legal residents only. 
 
 This will save millions of dollars in taxes. right now people who have individual taxpayer identifying numbers and have children under 17 qualify. The illegal workers in most instances never pay a dime in taxes and they get thousands of dollars in refunds. This needs to be changed. The number people being claimed as Mexican dependents by illegal residents is unbelievable. With the savings this would bring you could increase the age of the qualifying child to 21 if claimed as a dependent which would help out the ordinary citizen. You would still save millions of dollars. 
 Look at the statistics on this it will amaze you. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/true-transparency
 
 
 true transparency
 
 KISS: Keep it simple, stupid. The government spends a dollar. Who spent it? On what? Who authorized the spending? Who keeps the receipt? Who questions EVERY expenditure? Every dollar the government spends belongs to the taxpayer. The government must be absolutely transparent and responsible for every dollar spent. What is so difficult about this? Or, what are they trying to hide??! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/lies-damned-lies-statistics
 
 
 Lies, Damned Lies &amp; Statistics
 
 Beware the manipulative propoganda of data analysis. Report what, prepared by whom and for what purpose? The numbers cannot lie - or can they? Is accountability and transparency the new buzzword for good old 'coverup'? Before we go into raptures about spreadsheets and interactive visualization methodology (what on earth have we done to the English language) lets get back to that good old KISS system. Let's ask everyday people how all this wonderful money has impacted them, shall we? Say a sample of 5,000 (or more?) facebookers gives us the real numbers, not these orgasmic tecnological wonders that leaves us breathless and scratching our heads (or should I say our sensory objective assessment evaluation center - just in case you were begining to actually understand the words that were being used!). 
 
 Because it doesn't depend on numbers created by someone else. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/the-need-for-standards
 
 
 the need for standards
 
 From a data management perspective, we
can only roughly gauge transparency by what gets reported. What the
administration stands to gain in terms of control over recipient
organizations will actually drive specific reporting requirements. 
Let's suppose that seeing every disbursement hierarchically
organized by project, recipient organization, etc. along with the
payout timeframes, amounts, end recipients - literal and
represented, end recipient billing location - both physical and by
congressional district, stated purpose and so forth may merely
represent the basics. The end results may not suffice, so some
insights into the spending process should also be reported. For
example, reporting should include planned and actual milestones,
amounts and timeframes on a periodic basis. For the sake of
consistency as well as cutting off an avenue to "revise" history,
only actuals would undergo correction. 
 
 Some of the other usual technical
standards would apply as well. A data dictionary and glossary of
terms would complement the report specifications. Reporting would
occur at regular intervals in response to the release of funds. The
most meaningful consequence of all this is that the reporting schema
would be exactly what its existence implies, an absolute standard. 
 
 Even if a standard were adopted,
separate recipients may already have their own reporting methods. In
such cases, the transparency initiative's standard should at least
form a portion of each recipient's overall specification. 
 
 Over time, basic reporting
specification should comprise an increasing proportion of an
recipient's overall reporting specification. This change should
occur not only because recipients might choose to increasingly align
their reporting with the standard, but also because the
administration begins to integrate the diverse elements from the
organizations' standards into the standard. Conceivably, the
administration could treat the relative growth of the basic reporting
specification as a proportion of the recipients' reporting
specifications as a sign of increasing transparency. 
 
 Imposing a basic reporting standard has
the added benefit of making data amenable to ETL operations to in
turn support data mining. It provides an instrument for future
planning. 
 Conversely, data mining provides a
mechanism to detect disembling in the reported data. 
 
 Assuming that the very process of
imposing a standard will invite pushback even serves a purpose. 
Further investigation on each pushback has the potential to reveal
accounting deficiencies. In the best case, this results in some sort
of process improvement to facilitate transparency. In the worst
case, the administration removes an obstacle to transparency. 
 
 Perhaps the greatest strength of the
reporting standard is that it can facilitate the release of data to
the general public. The reported data could be made available
through any number of existing feed technologies, such as RSS. 
Public feedback on data quality will provide input for further
improving reporting standards and transparency. 
 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://www.johnstonmclamb.com/Solutions/recoveryAct2009.aspx">http://www.johnstonmclamb.com/Solutions/recoveryAct2009.aspx</a> 
 
 The transparency initiative referenced
at recovery.gov inevitably provokes some critical questions. How
will its mechanics promote and achieve transparency. Can
"transparency progress" be measured or tracked? If so, then how?
 What does the presidential administration want to gain with the
initiative - in the specific terms discussed behind closed doors,
not necessarily the terms placed on a public website? Most
importantly, what defines transparency? These days, IT has an
obvious role in the transparency initiative. It will play a key role
in passing and presenting data. A deeper consideration of IT's
role, however, delves into the mindset governing its employment and
evolution 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/citizen-feedback
 
 
 Citizen Feedback
 
 If the goal is truly to allow the monitoring of expenditures and use of funds, then the first issue which should be addressed is the effectiveness of the data you capture. <a class="external-link" href="http://www.neighborhoodamerica.com/reveal">REVEAL</a>, and the rest of the <a class="external-link" href="http://www.neighborhoodamerica.com">Neighborhood America</a> offering, is built on the <a class="external-link" href="http://www.microsoft.com">Microsoft</a> technology stack. It enables organizations to invite their constituents to not only share new ideas, but also help determine which ones are the best. REVEAL is ideally suited for government entities that seek new ideas for innovation. Through an online community offering ratings and rankings, members are empowered to bring the best ideas to the top, so that decision-makers can focus on those ideas that show the most potential for success - eliminating the time-consuming task of filtering through volumes of suggestions to determine which are useful. 
 
 The following ideas are all included as core components of <a class="external-link" href="http://www.neighborhoodamerica.com/reveal">Neighborhood America's REVEAL</a> solution. 
 
 Structure 
 Collecting ideas is only part of the equation. 10,000 ideas collected on change.gov showed people were willing to participate - but it also showed an inability to manage the data or present it in a useful format to either the citizens or the agency trying to listen to the feedback. The content was daunting and disorganized. 
 
 Visual content 
 Governments may be accustomed to text-heavy reports, but citizens are not. Exchanges that rely solely on text oftentimes are not compelling enough to capture attention or inspire involvement. Visually stimulating data is always more relevant and appealing to the average citizen. 
 
 Transparency vs. Moderation 
 Transparency is great, but moderation is a must. The same rules and checkpoints that are used in a traditional town hall meeting must be applied to the Web. Wouldn't the government ensure that a special interest group could not hijack the conversation at a town hall meeting - and have a plan of action in place that would have that person removed immediately? Yet that wasn't the case when special interest groups flooded WhiteHouse.gov and pushed their agenda for legalizing marijuana to the top of the 'best ideas' pool. The activity immediately damaged credibility - among citizens and the media - for what the White House was trying to accomplish. 
 
 Management Efficiencies 
 A trademark of the Obama administration is a renewed focus on transparency, collaboration and citizen involvement. The need to deploy multiple social media initiatives will exponentially grow over the coming years. How will you manage it all? To support this in the most efficient manner, you must be able to efficiently manage all of the citizen data - even across multiple agencies - from a single portal to ensure consistency and ease of administration, analytics and reporting. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/search-analyze-and-catalogue-diverse-data-and-create-custom-dashboards
 
 
 Search, analyze and catalogue diverse data and create custom dashboards
 
 A network of online data libraries accessed through an interactive tool that allows users to perform a multitude of tasks. The tool can generate custom dashboards, using tables, graphs and maps to create an interactive, web-based "HotReport." These reports can also be customized to the data subject(s). 
 
 The DataWeb is a data network developed by the Census Bureau that catalogs, integrates and facilitates data analysis, Web site design and creation. It includes statistical data from federal, state and local agencies that provide information on a public access and restricted use basis. TheDataWeb is a system in which the data producer maintains their own data accuracy and currency. It uses open-source software so that the software is sustainable and inexpensively maintained. As a participant in TheDataWeb, you can publish your data to TheDataWeb and, in turn, benefit by providing data to other consumers of data. TheDataWeb also provides a method for including metadata from disparate systems. 
 Data is accessed by a tool called "DataFerrett." DataFerrett allows users to access TheDataWeb and create custom tables, graphs and maps. 
 DataFerrett's dashboard feature, called "HotReport", allows users to access the power of both TheDataWeb and DataFerrett to easily create interactive Web pages that focus on topics relevant to the user. An example of a customized HotReport is the Community Economic Development (CED) HotReport, found here: 
<a href="http://ced.census.gov/"> http://ced.census.gov </a> . This report was a collaborative project sponsored by the Employment and Training Administration, US Census Bureau, and the Economic Development Administration. Users are able to search for information by states and county or by one of the 39 Employment &amp; Training Administration's WIRED regions. For areas that experience economic disruptions due to natural disasters, plant closings, base closings, and other economic changes, including abrupt increases in employment, the HotReport shows the pertinent economic indicators in concise, online reports. This is just one example of the multitude or HotReports that can be created.

 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/soa-a-middleware-strategy-for-transparency
 
 
 SOA: A middleware strategy for transparency
 
 The term SOA, or Service Oriented Architecture has been around for many years. Many organizations are moving towards SOA, while some have implemented a SOA methodology and are reaping the rewards. Let's look at how recovery.gov could implement SOA. 
 
 The web interface for recovery.gov should leverage portal and web 2.0 technologies. This will allow constituents, agencies and partners to share information, submit requests and disseminate all kinds of rich graphics and data as required for transparency. 
 
 The next layer consists of BPM, Business Process Modeling, to allow requests for data, reports and inquires to have a structured and process oriented flow and execution within the system. BPM is well suited for human work flow requests and clean interaction with the above and below layers of the architecture. 
 
 The ESB, Enterprise Service Bus, provides request routing, service mediation and transformation between the various requestors. This is heart of the messaging system and should be flexible to accommodate various message formats and messaging protocols. 
 
 A BPEL, Business Process Execution Language, process execution layer drives the system to system requirements within a standard framework and can be called using standard web services. This allows interaction with source systems via adapters or other interfaces as need to complete the required process. 
 
 A connectivity layer provides a transparent interface to source systems and relied upon for message formats between the source system and the layer above(BPEL), via XML. This could also include passive data integration via an ETL tool to create data stores for data ingestion and dissemination. 
 
 Finally the need for security to support both data at rest and data in motion is required. This should be viewed as a service model called upon by all layers in the architecture. For data in motion, services would include authentication, authorization, auditing , role mapping, entitlements to name just a few. For data at rest, secure backup capabilities, encryption, data masking for sensitive data should be utilized within the database layer. 
 
 In addition, a management framework allows for system administrators to maintain a 24X7X365 enterprise system. Remember, this will be accessed from around the world. The US will be the looked upon as the leader in systems architecture. 
 
 The foundation for introducing new and exciting features requires a complete comprehensive SOA architecture. This will create flexibility, agility and rapid adoption of new services for everyone in the US and around the world.

 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/middleware-soa-rest-framework-for-data-1
 
 
 Middleware SOA REST Framework for Data 
 
 Implement a middleware framework that enables information
consumers to gain easy access to a variety of information sources under common
and standardized formats. By placing a
re-usable SOA (Services Oriented Architecture) framework on top of traditional
relational data, flat files, and or
hierarchically structures, the complexities of data silos and multiple formats
are eliminated. By layering a framework between
data sources and the web, information seekers can create easily create web
accessible interfaces that mix and match information across and within information
domains. Using this approach and with
minimal effort , data can be applied to web 2.0 and "Mash-up" applications, including automatic delivery of subscribed
 feeds in formats such as XML, RSS, Atom, thus
increasing Recovery.Gov's ability to get 
the right information out to the right constituents using a low cost and highly efficient web delivery model. 
 
 Recovery.Gov will need to collect, maintain and deliver large
amounts of data and transform this data into consumable and actionable
information. This can be a very difficult
and expensive task, since most organizations have data in a variety of formats
and access methods. The importance of this idea is linked to driving a
re-usable web services information delivery model. Through information architecture patterns
such as REST "Representational State Transfer" Recovery.Gov's information could
be made accessible to the web, and support read once, and publish many model.
 This idea will help Recovery.Gov provide
low cost capabilities that offer quick access to data including turning it into
information streams that can be easily added to web sites across the entire World
Wide Web. Our team has implemented this
type of framework and it provides great business value and information access
across our many business domains. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/intuitive-and-effective-search
 
 
 Intuitive and Effective Search 
 
 Any tool for public use should be intuitive, respond to manipulation in real time and leave users feeling fully informed with knowledge in hand. Too many websites, government or otherwise, achieve only one or even none of these goals. 
 
 The most glaring current omission on the Recovery.gov site is an intuitive and effective tool to search the data that is already there. The problem of searching Recovery.gov will become increasingly complex as the site grows over time. Users will want to do more than simply find a document with a keyword, especially in a collection with many pieces of similar data where a single keyword will be repeated in thousands of documents. The search must go beyond keywords - grouping and sorting data within search results and using conceptual search techniques to focus in on the user's primary objective should be of primary importance. 
 
 Without an effective search tool for Recovery.gov, other tools for visualizing and analyzing data like mapping and graphing tools are useless. But the ability to compare and analyze similar pieces of data visually will be a primary need for users: not just one to one comparisons of data, but across time and location, across funded organizations, and type of projects being funded. And users will want it all - need it - at a glance. The most important step towards creating those tools is effective search. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/consistency-and-uniformity-in-data-collection-and-presentation
 
 
 consistency and uniformity in data collection and presentation
 
 
 
 Presented below are a few of the
findings from our own research across Recovery.org and various
corresponding state sites:
 
 Reporting Requirements for Federal
Agencies 
 Major Communications. Beginning
immediately, agencies receiving Recovery Act funds should determine
which major communications are appropriate for posting on
Recovery.gov. (see Section 2.2 and Appendix 1 for required data
fields and reporting instructions) 
 Formula Block Grant Allocation Reports.
As soon as information becomes available, Federal agencies are
required to provide details on the allocations made for each formula
block grant. (see Section 2.3 and Appendix 1 for required data fields
and reporting instructions) 
 Weekly Updates. Starting March 3rd,
agencies must submit weekly reports providing a breakdown of funding,
major actions taken to date, and major planned actions. (see Section 
2.4 and Appendix 1 for required data fields and reporting
instructions) 
 
 Agencies initially followed the format
suggested in the Memo dated 2/18/09 detailing the reporting
requirements. Several agencies have begun to format their recovery
sites differently, making it difficult to find the reports. 
 
 In addition, the weekly update to
Recovery.gov is not happening on time. Recovery.gov has consistently
been at least a week behind. While the major agencies have current
data on their respective recovery site, the data is often delayed in
being consolidated to Recovery.gov. 
 
 Reporting by States 
- Inconsistent format for data
categories. i.e. Health Care, Transportation, Education, etc. 
 
 Inconsistent presentation of data Some use graphs Some are text only Some do not show the funding amount Some do not provide lower level
details Some sites link to Commercial pages
with ads, etc (Texas) Some states use interactive maps, (MD)
 
 Titling: some use Recovery Act, some
the full title American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) 
 -Inconsistent downloadable data/material 
 Some states provide downloadable
reports (VT), others do not [XLS or PDF] Data contained in the reports varies
from state to state 
 
 -Some states list the impact of the
recovery act actions, others do not. [New Mexico for example] 
 -Some states list job opportunities,
others do not 
 -Information on localities within the
states varies widely 
 
 Gathering the essential data elements
to support open transparency is challenged by a lack of data
standardizations and/or appropriate technology at the state and local
levels to support gathering data. Paramount to this effort is
establishing a mechanism for data aggregation that can support which
represent a lion share of the 
 The concept of globalizing a process or
mandating technological compliance can seem daunting. A recommended
approach is to design a ubiquitous open framework that can support
system to system or public to system communication. Achieving this
objective does not require a monolithic solution comprised of
business process re-engineering, or massive change management
strategies. A targeted, focused effort at the point of data
acquisition leveraging industry standards such as OWL or Semantic Web
and implementing appropriate COTS products can dramatically reduce
costs. The objective of the proposal is to develop a solution that
can support all facets of public and private organizations by
establishing an open web site for supplying data associated to
original block grant funding, as well as a comprehensive suite of
services via SOA to support system interoperability while remaining
technology agnostic. This proposal reduces change costs, can be
quickly adopted and provides a scalable framework that can evolve
through time. 
 
 One of the largest
roadblocks facing the objectives of transparency is the inability to
trace Federal Block Grant's to the state and local jurisdictions. 
The goals of transparent government include identifying at a granular
level where and how Federal funding is being utilized. The major
challenge is a lack of clear standardization with respect to
traceability of funding to the lower elements. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/wolfram-possibly-a-rapid-deployment-solution
 
 
 Wolfram - Possibly a rapid deployment solution
 
 It may be possible to remove the metamodel and data models off the project critical path by using the soon to be released Wolfram Alpha search computation tool factual information. Check out the pre-release <a class="external-link" href="http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/03/08/wolfram-alpha-computes-answers-to-factual-questions-this-is-going-to-be-big/">review.</a> 
 I am not suggesting that this replaces the metamodel and data models, only that it might be shortcut to getting core functionality before the metamodel and data models are complete. 
 
 It has the potential to significantly accelerate time to market for recovery.gov. I realize it is an imperfect solution, but with the current economic crisis time is of the essence. If Wolfram can help recovery.gov users obtain factual information before the top-down solutions is completed, it could be of enormous value. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/spatial-analysis-of-expenditures
 
 
 Spatial Analysis of Expenditures
 
 A geographical illustration of expenditures 
 Mapping out expenditures to be viewed by the common citizen. 
 The affective use of Geographical Informations Systems can achieve the goal of spatially illustrate, track, and monitor exenditures. 
 
 Spatial analysis will show if the funds are distributed evenly among the country and population. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-sharing-using-web-services
 
 
 Data sharing using Web Services
 
 
 
 Develop a Global Financial XML Data Model and a library of
Web Services and require that all Companies receiving TARP or other stimulus
funding share their information with Recovery.gov. Summarized reporting could
be made available to the public and for more experienced parties could use the
SOA capabilities. 
 
 
 
 It holds the recipients of the tax payer assistance
accountable, openly shares this activity with the public and encourages other
enterprises to adopt the same technology. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/measuring-the-benefits-to-citizens-not-just-industry-and-government
 
 
 Measuring the benefits to citizens not just industry and government
 
 The use of computerized accounting systems has been around for some time and industry has slowly come around to implementing these new capabilities; a central system of services such as SaaS would make it possible for industry, companies, government and individuals to take advantage of these systems and be able to share common indicators of how well they are doing financially. 
 
 Everyone who uses computers has relied on developing their own solutions instead of using commercial available off-the-shelf solutions, let alone SaaS solutions, that they can use and also share data that indicates how-well they are doing financially over a period of time. It is true that SaaS in a new concept but it can be a type of solution that will give the type of feedback we need to do an effective job of monitoring financial data in real time. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/tracking-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-data-analysis
 
 
 Tracking the Good, the Bad and the Ugly: Data Analysis
 
 It might prove useful to be able to make meaningful comparisons between the states, similar to data analysis tools found on the National Center for Education Statistics (<a href="http://nces.ed.gov/">http://nces.ed.gov/</a>). 
 
 These data would not only allow the public and official watchdog groups easier and facilitated access to the information for subsequent analysis, but more importantly it can provide states with valuable measuring tools (yardsticks), indices of success as well as ideas they might be able to replicate in their own reporting or operational practices. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/updated-information-base-on-foreign-aid
 
 
 Updated Information Base on Foreign Aid
 
 Provide an up-to-date accounting, on a continuing basis, of the amount of foreign aid being provided by the USA to other countries including breakdown by name of country or international organization, how much is budgeted, how much spent, and monetary or material goods provided. 
 
 American taxpayers have a right to know how much of our hard-earned money is being spent on
foreign governments, some of which continue to be vehemently
anti-American. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/public-communications-via-cartoon-animations
 
 
 Public Communications via Cartoon Animations
 
 Many of the ideas in the recovery.com arena are far to complex for the average citizen to understand. However if the main ideas in many of the issue areas are linked to or include a simple cartoon using easily executable scripts that convey the essence of the issue or area. 
 
 Many of the ideas are beyond the basic understanding of the public and these kinds of communications are most effective in helping them uderstand the issues and their interrelatedness--like the relationship of enegy creation to global environmental issues for example. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/optimize-transparency-and-accountability-using-location
 
 
 Optimize Transparency and Accountability Using Location
 
 Recovery investments will occur in places and impact communities all across America. Location can serve as the context to visually present and communicate investment and performance information to citizens in clear, easy to understand ways through Recovery.gov. 
 
 Benefits of a location-based analytical and communications approach include: 
 · Opportunity Analysis and Priority Setting - Government leadership could analyze and map multiple factors affecting economic conditions (unemployment rates, foreclosure rates, etc.) by city, county, or Congressional District to target investments to communities where economic problems are most severe, or potential benefits are greatest. 
 Investment and Progress Tracking - Government decision -makers and taxpayers want to see and track site-specific projects in their neighborhoods, states, and Congressional Districts. 'Smart maps' could provide tailored views of investments and project progress for different audiences through Recovery.gov - summary reports for the public, robust reports for OMB and agency staff, and executive dashboards for executive management and political leadership. 
 · Demonstration of Results - Government leaders could map demographic factors such as unemployment rates, job creation, and foreclosure rates in project areas to provide "before and after" assessments in affected locales and demonstrate visible results to citizens. 
 
 Location analysis using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) will allow decision makers to evaluate and show results tied to recovery projects and can be used to optimize and track spending decisions. A location-based approach will leverage Recovery funds to provide a new model of government transparency, accountability and communications with citizens; and provide performance planning and management tools for government officials. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/xml-for-bills
 
 
 XML for Bills
 
 Tag all dollar figures/spending in government bills so that they are machine readable and can easily be pulled out of huge documents. Pork would become obvious and people would become accountable for their actions. Then measure the performance against the promise. 
 
 Simple transparency of huge government documents. At this point these Bills are so voluminous that not even the folks voting for them bother to read them cover to cover. XML or some flavor of it would allow for the important details to be flagged and cataloged for review. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/meta-data-management-vendors
 
 
 Meta Data Management Vendors
 
 Below is response to RATB request for vendors of data management solutions to centrally manage the collection of disparate+non-conforming data elements: 
 1) Open Source 
 http://www.fedora-commons.org/about/ 
 2) Off The Shelf 
 http://www.oracle.com/master-data-management/index.html 
 
 Implement best practices and products = best results 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/improve-display-visualization-of-info-from-this-web-site
 
 
 Improve display &amp; visualization of info from this web site
 
 The usefulness of this web site could be increased by improving the way in which users can navigate ideas and the system displays information. In particular, it would be helpful to be able to see more ideas displayed at a given time, in response to a given query or topic, than the format now, which now displays hits in non-compact form, with maybe only 4 or 5 hits per page. I'd suggest offering an additional format that uses only one or two lines per hit, and gives the user the option of how many hits to include per page. This will enable users to get better, more comprehensive views of information, and find items of interest faster. 
 
 Current method of display shows only 4 or 5 hits per page, which then requires tabbing through many pages of results if a given search produces many results. You could easily increase the amount of information displayed on a screen at one time by eliminating much of the graphic content that is now on the screen, spreading and compressing info on a given hit, and expanding the page being viewed to a large number of lines. This will make the system easier to use and will produce useful information faster. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/full-discosure
 
 
 Full discosure
 
 Mandate the full discosure of the people and firms involved in recovery.gov project. 
 
 I spent more than an hour to read through the list of most rated ideas and put a #vendor tag to the ones that are related to promoting a specific products or technologies that the author himself/herself is directly involved with. 
 What amazed me is that I saw the tag size rising to tagSize5 , the highest one in the tag cloud when I finished page 40. I don't have time to go on to tag specific vendors such as IBM, Microsoft, etc. 
 There is nothing wrong with recommending products and technologies in this National Dialogue, but a simple tagging gives a little bit more transparency to the process. 
 Recovery.org could adopt similar method. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/think-simple
 
 
 Think Simple !!
 
 Do not ask agencies to report too much data in too much complicated format. 
 Ask them for the most essential data points in the simplest possible data-collection form (even XLS spreadsheet that can be read by computer program). The points to collect: 
 - Name of the project 
 - Person in-charge 
 - Address where project is being executed 
 - Start date 
 - Estimated End-date 
 - Budgeted amount 
 Then, encourage citizens/residents of that area to take photos/videos and tag them on to the map at the project's location. Encourage them to put a 'date' on each photo. 
 I am sure the agencies / counties/ cities are already required to report details about every project they undertake. We should not try to use ARRA to 
 
 
 
 The ARRA is a big and complex undertaking. But, the implementation, especially related to IT, need not be. 
 The involvement of public is expected by President and is an important step to keep the officials honest. The visual representation using photos/videos will also be most convincing for showing the use or waste of taxpayers' dollars. 
 
 It's also important because the simpler things are faster to implement and are more likely to be followed / adhered to. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/reporting-waste-inefficiency-should-be-easy-and-safe
 
 
 Reporting Waste &amp; Inefficiency should be Easy and Safe
 
 Recovery.gov should provide an easy and safe way for people who want to report waste, fraud &amp; abuse (or just plain inefficiency) with respect to Recovery spending. 
 As President Obama recently stated , the people who are closest to the work are the ones most likely to see the waste and inefficiency in that work. 
 And, with respect to Recovery spending, that means employees of government (federal, state, &amp; local), as well as employees of contractors to government . 
 However , those employees will not report waste or inefficiency if (1) they are unaware or confused about how to report it, or if (2) there is a risk that they will lose their job for making the report. 
 Yes, the traditional "whistleblower protections" for federal employees are now also extended to contractor employees under the the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA"). But those "protections" are so weak that only the most naive of federal employees actually believe that they work. (The wise ones have seen what really happens to the "whistleblowers".) 
 However, now there is technology that Recovery.gov can use that allows a person to report waste or inefficiency AND, at the same time, gives them sufficient confidence that they will not be "found out" by their supervisors. 
 I'm not talking about the "old" system offered by the govt. IGs or the GAO's Fraudnet, who expect the employee to trust their career to a complete stranger. I'm talking about outside-the-government vendors whose technology (and reputation) offer employees the level of control and confidentiality needed before they will "blow the whistle" on their organization. 
 I don't have a list of these vendors (nor do I work for any of them), but I know that some of them are on the GSA's list of pre-approved vendors (i.e., a federal agency could purchase their services very quickly). 
 The CEO of one of those vendors has a blog-posting about the <a class="external-link" href="http://tinyurl.com/dhxjfq">ARRA's legal requirements for a whistleblowing system </a>needed by public and private organization that receive Recovery funds. Recovery.gov should provide an easy-to-understand "FAQs" on that topic (with links) for the benefit of those employers and employees. 
 In fact, it would be a very powerful symbol if the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board (RATB) itself adopted this better-than-legal system for people to report (confidentially or not) opportunities for improvement in the RATB's operations (including Recovery.gov) and not just limit it to a one-time, one-week window (like this platform). 
 
 Any auditor will tell you that the single biggest source for detecting waste, fraud &amp; abuse (in any organization) comes from "tips" and information provided by the employees who see it. 
 If we make it easy and and safe for employees to make those reports, then more of them will do so which, in turn, will be the single biggest deterrent to waste, fraud and abuse (and, yes, just plain inefficiency) in the use of Recovery funds. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/evaluation-helps-us-spend-the-dollar-once
 
 
 Evaluation Helps Us Spend the Dollar Once
 
 Evaluation is a challenging task under any condition. It involves all kinds of methodologies, both quantitative and qualitative. 
 While it is essential and very important, it often scares people and local agencies to death, costs a small fortune and rarely leaves communities with the capacity to do it themselves. 
 Quantitative data is essential, but doesn't always leave much behind. Also, unless presented in an entertaining way or with a big punch, it might not stick in the public's mind. Collecting dry data can miss the real wins in a program or community. 
 Five Ideas: 
 Plan with Results in Mind . Beyond the grant or funding purpose, how else will the community define success. They may not be exactly the same. 
 Count Big and Little Wins . We want to account for unexpected wins, big and small. Results can fly under the scientific radar. Real and sustainable success relies on many variables, not just one or two. Make room for candid community evaluation. 
 Failure Analysis is a Vehicle for Success : Silicon Valley successes are built on a million failures. The same is true of really effective programs. Good evaluation is a tool for continuous improvement not a grading system upon which future funding depends. The evaluation paradigm needs to be updated. 
 Build Community Capacity 
 Everything we do should leave people better off, with more capacity, than before the federal money touched their lives. Ideally we will leave people with more tools and capacity so our investment can be sustained past funding. 
 Evaluation is a Story 
 
 Tell the public a story, involve the recipient of funding as a partner. People love stories, big or small. Turning results into a story will capture the public imagination. Past the data, people need to relate to the data. Stories do that. 
 I used this methodology in evaluating the Advancing Community Policing Grants for COPS/Justice. My partners were local law enforcement agencies. It worked well, was published, shared credit, and the fear factor went way down. This did not cost a lot of money. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The target audience for this idea is the general public and the recipients of funding. 
 The public wants to know what happened with the money. We are making an investment in the future of the United States. President Obama has promised transparency, accountability and results. 
 Our job is to find out and explain clearly, what happened with the public dollar. The pubic is a big partner, ideally this money will leave behind sustainable programs and help us get to a place where we spend the public dollar once. 
 How we tell this story matters a lot, should capture the public imagination, honor different learning styles, and create pride and excitement. 
 This is more likely to happen if the data is digestable and useful to the American public. Everyone remembers being told stories as a child, adults like it too. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/require-consistent-recordkeeping-practices-for-fund-recipients
 
 
 Require Consistent Recordkeeping Practices for Fund Recipients
 
 To require compliance with a program that demonstrates transparency, oversight and accountability by maintaining precise and authentic financial and administrative records for allocating and disbursing funds. 
 Provide a methodology for a standardized audit and oversight, and ensure that information is ready for future FOIA requests and examinations. 
 
 Adherence to Generally Accepted Recordkeeping Principles will result in standardization of documentation as it relates to the appropriation of the funds. 
 The audit function can be standardized across all entities that receive federal funds leading to clear and transparent interpretation of results. This will enable effective oversight and consistent reporting to the taxpayers of the United States. 
 Recipients should be advised to develop programs that adhere to the following Generally Accepted Recordkeeping Principles : 
 · Principle of Accountability 
 An organization shall assign a senior executive who will oversee a recordkeeping program and delegate program responsibility to appropriate individuals, adopt policies and procedures to guide personnel, and ensure program auditability. 
 
 · Principle of Integrity 
 A recordkeeping program shall be constructed so the records and information generated or managed by or for the organization have a reasonable and suitable guarantee of authenticity and reliability. 
 
 · Principle of Protection 
 A recordkeeping program shall be constructed to ensure a reasonable level of protection to records and information that are private, confidential, privileged, secret, or essential to business continuity. 
 
 · Principle of Compliance 
 The recordkeeping program shall be constructed to comply with applicable laws and other binding authorities, as well as the organization's policies. 
 
 · Principle of Availability 
 An organization shall maintain records in a manner that ensures timely, efficient, and accurate retrieval of needed information. 
 
 · Principle of Retention 
 An organization shall maintain its records and information for an appropriate time, taking into account legal, regulatory, fiscal, operational, and historical requirements. 
 
 · Principle of Disposition 
 An organization shall provide secure and appropriate disposition for records that are no longer required to be maintained by applicable laws and the organization's policies. 
 
 · Principle of Transparency 
 The processes and activities of an organization's recordkeeping program shall be documented in an understandable manner and be available to all personnel and appropriate interested parties. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/agency-and-state-recovery-money-tracking
 
 
 Agency and State Recovery Money Tracking
 
 Create standardized project and funding tracking system with API. 
 Aggregate all the various spreadsheets, pdf, html and other files that agencies and states are using to track their recovery projents and money. 
 Make the data accessible to the public. 
 
 It will require states and agencies to be more transparent with their projects and money. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/creating-an-arra-portfolio-of-investments
 
 
 Creating an ARRA Portfolio of Investments
 
 Project/Portfolio Management is a concept currently accepted throughout much of the Government today. In essence, ARRA is creating the need for a full Project/Portfolio Management capability. A capability that encapsulates a formalized selection process for investments/projects, enables selection based on value to the ARRA goals and objectives, creates a sustainable project/portfolio management capability and culminates with robust reporting and analysis both internally to the government and externally to our citizens. 
 Go to: <a href="http://www.projility.com">www.projility.com</a> for more information. Contact us and ask to see our Federal Portfolio Management Solution which is already in use within the Federal Government today. 
 
 Transparency and accountability, both common themes we have heard before and are finally beginning to see enforced within Government. ARRA has tremendous potential for good yet is fraught with potential for waste and fraud. To manage this, we have to have insight into the who, what, when, where, why and how. As others have said, "You can't manage what you can't measure". To effectively measure, you need accurate inputs. Accurate inputs come from formalizing processes and procedures. Obtaining these accurate inputs may entail some detailed work Project management &amp; reporting) but what the hey, one should expect a resonable level of effort if you are being provided millions of our tax payers dollars!! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/how-to-engineer-site-data-structure-basics
 
 
 How To Engineer Site &amp; Data Structure - Basics
 
 Organize data such that it allows for drill down or drill in, starting at the Federal / National level, going to State and local levels. 
 
 Show , as the site does now, dollars available and dollars allocated at these lower levels. 
 
 For dollars allocated, show the funded projects and initiatives, funding gaps and project progress over time. 
 
 Citizens will want to see 
 
 The projects that are, or will, be funded by the recovery budget plan and where those projects are in the US 
 
 Drill downs as to what the specific projects or Initiatives are and what the planned budget for them is, or will be. 
 
 At the project level, show planned complete date and progress to plan as a percentage, for example Project AAA is 10% complete, etc. 
 
 Show how many direct and indirect jobs those projects may provide., 
 
 The software tools for this can be rudimentary and using open source products, should be close to free. 
 
 Pictures speak louder than columns of numbers, so the GUI should be very graphical in its presentation, liberal use of charts and graphs. You have a good start on this already . 
 The underlying structure can be composed of a SQL based database and HTML presentation pages. It doesn't need a ton of high tech solutions, this is a simple data gathering and reporting application. 
 
 Gathering data at the local and state level will be the rub. 
 
 Provide a web based input portal for this purpose and require each local or state receiving recovery funds to report, at least monthly, project progress. Every project should have a project manager at the local level, so this should not be a huge burden. 
 
 The portal will require security and some data input reasonability check, as well as some federal oversight, to ensure anomaly's are dealt with before release to the general public. 
 
 
 This idea needs more detailing, but Im hoping you have staff that have already thought this thru, so thanks for the chance to comment. 
 
 By the way, you will need to provide an area for citizens to comment on the web site, everyone loves to give their opinion, dont they? 
 
 Perhaps adding access points, via Facebook or twitter or linkedin or others will help evangelize the sites presence. 
 
 
 You cant just throw some tech at this and hope it fits. There needs to be some time spent on design of the data collection method, data warehousing tool, the visulization and site design / wire framing. It has to have some "stickyness" to it or citizens wont visit. 
 The given time frame ( 4/23 to 5/3) for comment is not enough time. The subject requires discussion and dedicated mind share, not just posting ideas and comments. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/creative-cost-effective-it-management
 
 
 Creative Cost Effective IT Management
 
 I am one of the owners of Intechs.com (Information Technology
Solutions, Inc.) and a major draw back to innovation in IT is that we
simply aren't using the technologies available. We have just been
contacted about a project that will finally begin to utilize sound
technologies and methodologies to create jobs and put people back to
work. We have noticed that too many IT managers have missed this simple
concept that leads to better, more cost effective solutions for
Information Technology systems. 
 
 IT departments spend way too much money on things they don't need because they are missing this simple concept, but it does require a highly skilled IT staff, that understands these concepts and how to implement them. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/six-data-centric-management-principles-for-recovery.org
 
 
 Six data-centric Management Principles for Recovery.org 
 
 Achieving full
transparency and accountability for Recovery act stimulus funds is a delicate
data driven effort that requires careful deliberate implementation. To accomplish the goals of this initiative--to
collect and present data associated with stimulus funding in order to make it
easy and useful for anyone to track the funds and impact of recovery, all in a
transparent and collaborative fashion--requires the right technology, processes,
and approach to ensure the successful data sharing and collaborative partnership between public and private
sector necessary for national economic recovery. 
 
 The following six
data-centric principles establish a foundation of transparency and
collaboration necessary to forge a private/public sector partnership that
achieves the goals of the historic Economic Recovery Act. 
 In short, the solution for
recovery.gov requires that Recovery Data be: 
 1. Easily Collectible. Given the
breadth of purposes for stimulus funds and the number of government agencies,
partners, vendors, organizations and individuals involved, to ensure successful rapid delivery of a data
management solution, recovery.gov must implement a solution that allows
for the automated collection, reporting, and organization of data from the
widest range sources (e.g., as systems, databases, mainframes, flat files),
interfaces (e.g., web-services, EDI) and
formats (Excel, XML) possible without costly custom coding or integration. Additionally, cloud hosted services could provide
an effective scalable cost competitive approach for handling source data files
coming from hundreds or even thousands of organizations for loading into
persistent storage areas such as Operational Data Stores, Enterprise Data
Warehouses, or Data Marts or staging areas. 
In short, given today's technology, connectivity and handling of data in
various existing data sources and formats should not be an impediment for
organizations providing data to recovery.gov. 
 2. High Quality. As learned by
hundreds of companies and organizations over the last decade, accessibility of data
is not enough. Data must be consistent,
complete, and clean (error free) to be useful. 
While practically "perfect data" does not exist, the Recovery
Team can ensure Recovery Data remains meaningful through development of a data
governance program that establishes standards and accountability for
maintaining effective data quality for submitted data, and implementation
supporting automated tools and processes that will help identify and resolve
data quality issues in collaboration with data providers and stakeholders on an
ongoing basis. 
 3. Presentation
Agnostic. Integration costs and associated code
maintenance are rapidly becoming one of the most expensive aspects of data
system maintenance. To ensure the
recovery.gov solution remains low maintenance and low cost, the Recovery Team
needs a solution that makes Recovery Data easy to access, analyze and use. Consistent with industry best practices,
data should be separated (e.g. via a data warehouse or data marts) and managed
independent of presentation and application logic. This separation when coupled with standard
integration interfaces should allow Recovery Data to be accessed and used by a
wide range of tools, systems and technologies. 
For example, the solution could support presentation of canned reports
via the recovery.org site, provide standard web search interfaces, integrate
with business intelligence tools for reports and trend analysis, and
interoperate with data mining tools to support robust monitoring by regulators
and law enforcement, to name a few. 
 4. Web Accessible /
Mashable. The Recovery Team can provide significant
capabilities at minimal cost by harnessing the power of the private
sector. As proven by recent Internet
developments, Web 2.0 sites have already proven the significant advantages of open
access to data sources. By providing
data feeds that make Recovery information accessible and retrievable by
external web-services, the Recovery team can harness the creative power of the
private sector by allowing developers to create a host of value-added
applications. Just as internet site
zillow.com has created a valuable service by combining existing public records,
Real Estate information, and Microsoft map data, enterprising individuals and
organizations in both the public and private sector will be able to harness
recovery data to create applications that track the usage of government funds
and assess the impact of recovery efforts, thereby providing tremendous value
at minimal cost to the Recovery Team. 
 5. Highly Reliable,
Always Available. Few things pose a greater risk to the appearance and
promise of transparency than downtime or other technical issues that prevent
interested parties from consistently and reliably accessing Recovery Data. While superficially, system outages, even for
short periods, may seem innocuous, in the global court of public opinion, such
outages can lead to a perceived lack of openness, or even incompetence. To prevent such misperceptions, and ensure
consistent access to government data, the Recovery Team must provide a highly
available environment proven capable of scaling to provide uninterrupted
support for all of recovery.gov's data collection and dissemination
efforts. Additionally, for web applications
to work, developers creating mashable sites will require similar consistent
always-on real-time access to Recovery Data. 
 6. Verifiable and
Auditable. Beyond effective management and accessibility of
data, ensuring that economic recovery funds are appropriately spent requires
that data consumers (such as regulators, the media, and law enforcement) be
able to determine where the data originated, who provided it, and when it was
received. By implementing metadata
management tools that leverage existing metadata from systems submitting data,
the recovery team can simplify data tracking by automating much of this
typically onerous but highly critical regulatory process. 
 About Informatica 
 Informatica is a leading
provider of enterprise data integration software and services. With
Informatica, organizations can gain
greater business value by integrating all their information assets from
across
the enterprise. Used by hundreds of successful very large
organizations worldwide, Informatica's data integration platform
combines industry leading tools with the unmatched ease of use needed
to rapidly address the full range of organizations' data integration
challenges. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/enable-drill-down-as-with-ombs-vue-it
 
 
 Enable Drill-Down As With OMB's VUE-IT
 
 Enable the top-level display graphic for drill-down so viewers can go from the summary level to various levels of detail. For example, see OMB's VUE-IT at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/egov/vue-it/index.html#path5/path5.json|path2/path2.json . This tabular rather than graphic but shows the basic idea. 
 
 It's important to design the site for task-oriented behavior. Someone becoming interested in the data being displayed will want to know more, and permitting direct drill-down will maintain the user's interest and allow for a good deal of research without having to lose context. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/modeling-stimulus-impact
 
 
 Modeling Stimulus Impact
 
 There should be some agreement on the time series to be used in modeling the effectiveness of the stimulus package. Obviously some measure of job creation by industry and region would be desirable. We should also strive to identify which variables are endogenous and which are exogenous. The formulation of testable hypotheses is also very desirable. 
 
 Formulating causal models requires an investment in the identification of possible dynamic models where we can test causality and observe the actual magnitude of the impact. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/making-the-web-site-inclusive-building-from-all-levels-can-we
 
 
 Making the Web site inclusive-Building from all levels. Can We?
 
 I am IT trained but with no skill in the field. It seems to me that one group seem to want to dominate IT specifice jobs, by not including all levels of skill in the mix. let' have an voluntary open forum to discuss and learn together. All IT interested people, and frequent users of the site. Let's work together to build a site America has it's hands in the end product together. Right now, this project is going like most Government projects, one way only. 
 
 Because the population using this site wants the site to be interesting, and easy to use for everyone. It doesn't have to be complicated. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/leverage-existing-database
 
 
 Leverage existing Database
 
 It would be nice to use a database like FRED as the St. Louis Federal Reserve to collect relevant metrics with which to model the effectiveness of the stimulus package. Many of us already use this database for various econometric models and find it to be reasonably well maintained. Unfortunately, it is often lacking the regional, temporal or industry specific granularity that we would like to have, but it is a good starting point and provides tools one can use to import the relevant time series into sophisticated statistical packages for time series analysis, intervention analysis, causality testing, etc. Every effort should be made to collect data at the highest possible frequency. Weekly would be ideal, but monthly observations would be adequate and make seasonal adjustment easier. 
 
 We should leverage existing technology and make the data available to the widest possible audience. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/adopt-effective-it-complexity-management
 
 
 Adopt Effective IT Complexity Management
 
 
 All Federal IT projects should adopt a formal mechanism for managing the complexity of new IT projects. 
 
 66% of all Federal IT dollars are invested in high risk projects, that is, projects that are likely to fail. This number has been steadily increasing. It was 30% in 2007, 43% in 2008. At the current rate of increase, by the year 2010 this number will be close to 100% 
 
 Not only is IT failure a huge cost to the Federal budget ($47 billion, in 2009), but there is an even larger cost to the US economy as a whole. For every dollar in direct cost, there is at least another five dollars in indirect costs. The actual costs to the US economy are therefore in the neighborhood of $300 billion dollars per year. 
 
 The reason that so many Federal IT projects are at high risk is that there is no effective IT complexity management strategy. The complexity of the systems being build is increasing and the tools for project management have not kept pace. 
 
 Complexity is exponentially related to functionality. That means that as the functionality of an IT system increases, its complexity increases much faster. And both system cost and system risk go up with complexity, so small additions of functionality can increase the risk of failure dramatically especially as the system approaches the breaking point, as most Federal IT systems have. 
 
 The answer to this is a Federally mandated program to train IT managers in understanding how complexity impacts IT systems and developing effective processes for managing and mitigating IT complexity. Not only would such a program greatly reduce the failure risk of Federal IT systems, it would also reduce their cost. 
 
 In general, the answer to IT complexity is found in partitioning IT systems based on synergies between functionality. Applying this concept to a large IT system can reduce the overall complexity, cost, and risk of system failure by at least 75%. If this approach is applied across the entire spectrum of Federal IT, we can expect to reduce the cost of Federal IT from today's $71 billion per year to around $35 billion per year. 
 
 Not only will we reduce the cost, but we will see a dramatic improvement in the number of systems that are actually delivered. We will also see an marked improvement in the quality of those systems. 
 
 This program is a win-win strategy. We save money at the same time as we improve government. 
 
 For more information on the nature of complexity in Federal IT systems, see the editorial in the Perspectives of the International Association of Software Architects available at http://www.objectwatch.com/white_papers.htm#EditorialIASA 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/make-it-fast-please
 
 
 Make it fast please
 
 The site should load and link fast. I'd rather see a list of headlines, more items at once, then a few at a time. (This site, for example, to collect ideas and let us comment, is so painfully slow and shows so little data at a time that I don't think I'll be able to sift through all of the great ideas) 
 
 I will simply give up after one, two, or maybe three attempts to look at the information. I suppose I'm not the only impatient internet user out there. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/jobless-solutions
 
 
 Jobless solutions
 
 The idea is solution to comment below if valid. More jobs should be made known on a stimulus data base, and outreached directly via touchpoints advertised by the government, not only for government jobs, how about the contractor companies getting involved, they get government funding, but little transparency about positions. My comment below were sent to my legislators as to the dissatisfaction with that information if valid. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tell me this isn't true, especially the part about "only 20% of jobs are publicly posted. 
 
 While Main Street is encountering jobless rates, Washingtonites are given preferential treatment???? Are any of these jobs doable from locations out of DC area, like telecommuting??? 
What are you folks thinking up there. This is a travesty that jobs are available but only 20% are known 
 ??? 
 Unthinkable that regardless of party affiliation fairness is forgotten. 
 
 , DC Jobs Are Scarce 
 
Former Bush administration staffers are feeling the economic pinch as acutely as other victims of the sagging economy, Politico reports. GOP job-seekers in Washington face a triple whammy of economic chaos, minority status on Capitol Hill, and an excess of qualified Republicans. "The Washington side is a bit of a black hole because there are so many people with so much experience looking and the economy's so tight," said one 14-year DC veteran. Even though only about one-fifth of open positions are publicly posted, congressional offices are receiving hundreds of resumes, and former paid staffers are taking volunteer internships just to stay on the Hill. "I planned for the worst, and it was worse than I thought," one former Agriculture Department official said. "It's like having a horrible disease," says one job-seeker. "You have good days, and you have bad days
 
 
 
 Reduce unemployment, restore job opportunity. Look outside the box that jobs may not need work out of a physical location, and may use technology for telecommuting, like many private businesses do nationally and globally. 
 Communicate, Communicate and when you think you've done too much do it again and again. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/break-down
 
 
 Break down
 
 Break down the site in order to make it easy to find out what is happening in an area, when, and what is being done. Example: user enters State in which they reside. Next enter zip code. Search then brings up What is happening in there State and in their city. 
 
 It is important to make it easy for people like myself to be able to quickly and easily be able to find out what is happening in my community. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/limits-of-creativity-of-spending
 
 
 Limits of creativity of spending
 
 We need to limit spending to true infrastructure rebuilding. Those concepts are the basis of governmental spending both in good and bad economic times. Spending should absolutely exclude the construction or rebuilding of recreational areas and entertainment areas as they are not essential to an economic crippled society and this is truly the job of private investment. Infrastructure rebuilding should also exclude those areas that are proven to have recurring issues with nature such as much of Louisiana and Mississippi near the coastal areas prone to future extreme damage due to the adversities of weather. When we put positive infrastructure dollars to work in renewable areas of society's physical infrastructure rather than being humbled by congressional special interest "pork barrel" our country can truly advance. 
 
 
 
 As we are spending the money of the tax payers of future generations, it must be guarded as a trust. Since it is the tax dollars of future generations, it should not be spent exclusively for the benefit of current citizens who have exhibited somewhat of a disregard of maintaining the infracture that is crumbling around our feet. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/how-to-improve-the-value-of-recovery-gov-data-1
 
 
 How to Improve the Value of Recovery.gov Data
 
 The Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board should work with the Federal Chief Financial Officer's (CFO) Council and industry to develop guidance for agencies in securing Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) financial management platforms to manage the financial data submitted to Recovery.gov. This guidance should encourage agencies to purchase Information Technology (IT) solutions that easily integrate with existing systems, and enable agencies to view financial data at the macro- and micro-levels (e.g., project code, organization, by vendor, etc.). In addition, this guidance should recommend that these solutions are scalable and facilitate agency use of financial management data for improved performance management, project management, and capital planning. 
 
 Providing transparency and accountability into the use of American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA) funds is essential. Just as important, however, is making sure that agencies reap the benefits of this data to improve planning and financial management. Without the capability to view and analyze this data, reporting to Recovery.gov runs the risk of becoming simply another government data call. Unfortunately, many agencies rely on a complex system of Excel spreadsheets and/or homegrown IT systems to manage their financial data. The result is that these agencies are unable to fully analyze ARRA - and other agency data - over the long-term to make better business decisions that link program, organization, and agency investments with performance metrics and mission success. With guidance from the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, the CFO Council, and industry, agencies will see purchasing financial management IT solutions as an Administration priority and act on it, ultimately improving the value of Recovery.gov data and the effectiveness of government. 
 
 Christen Bergerud 
 Managing Director, Sales and Services 
 EcoSys (<a href="http://www.ecosysmgmt.com">www.ecosysmgmt.com</a>) 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/disclosure-of-contractor-performance-rating-scores
 
 
 Disclosure of Contractor Performance Rating Scores
 
 <a href="../."> </a> 
 A FOIA request seeking the disclosure of government contractors performance scores to be decided by DoD soon under new Obama "transparency" policy. Previously, the Bush Administration bureaucracy stopped disclosure due to the potential embarrassment of poor performing contractors who continue to receive major government contracts, particularly involving Iraq. The rating scores track contractor's performance and provide a record, both positive and negative, on a given contract during a specific period of time. Similar performance rating systems, are used by state governments and openly made available to the public. This FOIA request is directly challenging the "old guard" mentality of the government contracts establishment that is often shielded from public scrutiny. Doesn't the public have the right to know how contractors are performing using billions of our tax dollars? 
 
 Doesn't the public have the right to know how contractors are performing using billions of our tax dollars? 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-managment-access
 
 
 Data Managment &amp; Access
 
 The problem with most of the ideas presented so far that I read through about the data and access seems to be same as governments general problem in general. Centralization, proprietor formats, and limiting access. It would seem that the data no matter what organization it comes from could be standardized, after all you really want to know is how much money, which areas is the money to be used in and then finally a timeline with updates of the expenditures and to who. So: 1. Create the standardized characteristic of the data fields. 2. Use the existing structure of the internet to store and allow access to the data. To do this just go use Amazon's cloud or other similar entity and setup a Linux image with a postgreSQL or MySQL database that defines the data using the standard. There is going to be some fee here for bandwidth, but you don't have to pay to use the Linux OS or open source database. 3. Let users have access to it. People will come up with the ways to analyze and follow up on the government expenditures to track. Take myself for example, if you give me access to the database I can use tools like my MyJSQLView tool or Weka to analyze the data. These tools which are open source don't cost anything and allow data to be accessed and analyzed. Again no cost. If the approach is to be open and stimulating to the economy then let as many people as possible access the data. Going to a central web page with a limited interface and access does not do that. Just put the data up on the Internet in a cluster that is scalable with standard characterstic fields on an open source database and let people have access to it with free tools that are already available. Information is then decentralization, no proprietor formats, and unlimited access. 
 
 
 Limits costs, decentralized the information and allows unlimited access to the data. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/integrated-data-mart-and-detailed-analytics
 
 
 Integrated data mart and detailed analytics
 
 Data Integration into a standardized data model -- 
 RSS2 or Atom syndicated feeds - 
 User basis visualization 
 Maps enabling data distribution and outcomes 
 Drill down capabilities to the atomic values 
 Collaboration at the transaction level 
 http://recovery.bfountain.com/ 
 User ID: user with no password 
 
 
 Will create transparency and analytics and collaboration to the nth level. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/graphs-charts-gis-drilldowns
 
 
 Graphs, Charts, GIS Drilldowns
 
 
 
 Use rich internet application technology like silverlight / WPF / Flash to improve the data visualization like Map(GIS) base drill down, category or department based drill down along with multiple graphs / charts to provide an intuitive insight about the huge amount of data published regularly by the web sites. 
 
 
 
 Data visualization is very important whenever insight is required from huge amounts of data. If regular people are not able to find the right insight from the data provided, it won't be useful in finding the inefficiencies in the process / project. I think it'll make huge differrence if more people are able to derive insight from the data and able to understand and compare the data to report the inconsistancies in the spending and implementations of the project. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/low-cost-subscription-application-tracks-stimulus-projects
 
 
 Low Cost Subscription Application tracks Stimulus Projects
 
 
 
 ActiveStrategy StimulusScorecard(tm) -
available on the GSA schedule for the federal government - is a low-cost,
turn-key web-based service designed to allow recipients and subrecipients of
funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA or Recovery
Act) to effectively and proactively monitor and manage their projects and
programs. 
 
ActiveStrategy StimulusScorecard collects the project information required by
the ARRA and makes real-time data available so governments can identify the
preemptive action needed to prevent delays, waste, fraud, and abuse that could
undermine program performance and public confidence. Simply put, it is a
service that allows governments to monitor, manage, review, and report on all
stimulus programs and projects from one location. 
 
 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://forms.activestrategy.com/go/activestrategy/nationaldialogue_stimulus_webinar">View a demo of the system during the
second half of this recording.</a> 
 
 StimulusScorecard provides a secure, low-cost system that requires
virtually no IT support and can be online and ready to go in days. The package
includes ActiveStrategy Enterprise online scorecard software, documentation,
training, best practices measurement templates for the ARRA, telephone support,
help selecting key measures and objectives to get your system usable right
away, and ongoing analysis of OMB guidance. Coaching on how to use the system
to conduct reviews of stimulus-funded projects and ARRA strategy is included as
well. There is no software to buy or install - governments and agencies pay for
the system only for as long as it is needed as part of the management and
administrative costs of their stimulus projects. 
 
 
 
 ActiveStrategy StimulusScorecard allows
federal agency, state, city, and local officials, as well as other Recovery Act
recipients, to monitor and manage: 
 How efficiently and effectively the
 dollars are being spent in real time (i.e. are the programs on-time,
 on-budget, and on-quality from their original plan) How much impact there is on economic
 recovery (i.e. what long-term benefits are being realized in job creation
 productivity, energy efficiency, etc.) Who is responsible for projects and
 what updates are they providing on performance How many projects and how many
 dollars have been awarded, spent, obligated or are pending 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-the-center-for-continuous-corporate-transparency-market-risk-mgt
 
 
 Create the Center for Continuous Corporate Transparency &amp; Market Risk Mgt.
 
 
 
 The creation of an organization that would institute and
oversee the implementation of a standard corporate instrument and process for
regulatory, financial, and market compliance and reporting. This entity will create
a measurement infrastructure for all corporations to comprehensively manage change
and transactional risks associated with the US financial markets and their
associated companies. This SEC organization's
focus will be to aggregate (monitor); audit, regulatory, policy and risk controls
(measure); so that the SEC and their Self Regulated Organizations (SRO's);
working under the SEC can focus on managing what matters ( risk ; transactional,
portfolio, portfolio groups, corporate, industry, market). The overriding focus,
mission, and methodology is M 4 ( M onitor
(capture), M easure
(control/test(s)), so one can M anage
what M atters (Risk) . This center for Continuous Corporate
Transparency and Market Risk Management to actually make market risk manageable
will need to do the following five (5) items: 
 1. Create
a detailed definition of "What" will be the future state for automated market
controls management. 
 2. Extend
the work just completed on what when wrong in the financial institutions, the
rating organizations, the SRO's and with the auditors (i.e. defining current
state) 
 3. Develop
a Solution roadmap to go from current state to future state, 
 4. Development
of a working prototype to: 
 a. Create
a solution framework for continuous 100% transaction monitoring supporting the
overlapping COSO and CobiT compliance frameworks. 
 b. 
Automate the visibility, and as such the management
of currently invisible processes that have policies, regulations and risks. 
 c. 
A comprehensive Corporate Risk Transparency and
Controls solution will require technology that provides for centralized
Regulations/Policy/Controls/Tests Knowledge Base and Analysis/Decision Engine
focused on; A) Controls that define "What" is being measured, "Where" the data
is being gathered, "How" it is measured, "When" is it measured and "Who"
manages the results of the measurements, and B) the association of a control to
corporate policies and governmental regulations, using a rules based
transaction auditing and change approval system 
 d. 
Defining a standard "Unit of Work" process
definition methodology and associated Control/Test Knowledge entry 
 e. 
Visual BPM like process definition/modeling
integrated with the Analysis/Decision Engine 
 f. 
Infrastructure that monitors business applications
and the IT infrastructure supporting those applications 
 g. 
An end user self service Business Request Portal
(System) 
 h. 
Automated Transaction Audit documentation of the
analysis of business &amp; IT transactions with defined "Risks" stored securely
in an EDMS 
 i. 
Ability to document access to the Audited
Transaction EDMS (who, what, when, how long, how often etc.) 
 This high-impact solution provides benefit and extraordinary
value to every stakeholder; the American marketplace &amp; corporate America,
the governmental regulatory and compliance organizations &amp; committees,
corporate executives, employees, and investors. 
Once fully functional it will: 
 increase the quality of corporate reporting transform the compliance process from being a burden to
 being an event reduce the time and expense associated with any and all
 compliance requirements eliminate the invisibility of any/all corporate activities
 and non-systemic events, creating visibility, track and traceable, and
 manageability restore confidence in the management and execution of
 businesses in America. 
 
 
 
 
 By way of specific
example, it has been proven that widespread audit and policy violations have
been identified and disclosed involving incorrect audit certifications of
compliance with IT security policies by outside auditors, internal audit and IT
organizations. These violations are
profound because they allow funds, as well as financial and other records, to
be hidden, removed, altered or stolen. 
This is alarming because such violations seriously compromise the
integrity and reliability of the entire financial reporting system. 
 
 Similar
fundamental, systemic and potentially catastrophic violations are evident in a
broad range of financial policy in all parts of the financial system, not merely
in IT security. Such violations are not
being detected or reported because of current manual off-line audit practices
designed by the very audit organizations which administer them. Those procedures allow unreliable information
about asset positions and infrastructure about companies because of inadequate
verification and lack of automation of properly designed controls. 
 
 Audit practice
under current SEC policies establishes a foundation for corporate executives to
claim plausible deniability of violations because they obtained signed audit
reviews for audits. However, as noted,
those audits miss defects with potentially enormous consequences which are not
monitored or disclosed, and which are not visible under present practice. Corporations are not willing to acknowledge
the violations and auditors are unwilling to admit or identify any deficiency
in past audits they have performed. 
There is no incentive by auditors or corporations to change. 
 
 Only the SEC can
drive change. To do so, the SEC needs to
recognize and implement a change in current practice by implementing definitive
regulations and funding prototype controls and automated systems. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/governmentwide-financial-management-structures
 
 
 Governmentwide Financial Management Structures
 
 Build upon the existing Federal Financial Management system structures and infrastructures. 
 
 ARRA is only one of three legislative acts that require accountability and transparency in government. The Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (FFATA) requires "all" Federal Awards, i.e., expenditures be reported in a website that the public can access. Today that website is USASpending.gov. In addition, the legislation identifies specific criteria for data elements that are required to be reported. Section 1526(c)(7) of ARRA requires ARRA to include the data elements required to comply with FFATA plus also allowing aggregate reporting on awards below $25,000. Similarly, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, Trouble Asset Relief Program (EESA/TARP) Section 114, Market Transparency, requires the Secretary shall determine whether the public disclosure is adequate to provide to the public sufficient information as to the true financial position of the institutions. If such disclosure is not adequate for that purpose, the Secretary shall make recommendations for additional disclosure requirements to the relevant regulators. 
 
 Unless the Government consolidates the above legislative requirements into a single accountability and transparency imitative there will be a triplication of effort to produce the required financial information. In addition, Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the Constitution and 31 USC 3513(a) states: 
 Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the Constitution 
 No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from time to time . 
 Sec. 3513 . Financial reporting and accounting system 
 -STATUTE- 
 (a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall prepare reports that will inform the President, Congress, and the public on the financial operations of the United States Government. The reports shall include financial information the President requires . The head of each executive agency shall give the Secretary reports and information on the financial conditions and operations of the agency the Secretary requires to prepare the reports . 
 Therefore, the Governmentwide financial reporting for FFATA, TARP, and ARRA are all Constitutionally required to be the responsibility of the Department of the Treasury. Such reporting should be based upon current Federal Agency financial accounting results extracted from Agency Systems of Records that are audited and meet the Federal reporting and internal control requirements of the Financial Systems Integration Office (FSIO) and can be expanded to include reporting for sub tier contractor, grantee, and loan transactions as required by the foregoing legislation 
 
 If the Constitutional reporting requirements are observed, the FFATA, TARP, and ARRA reporting will be integrated into the overall Federal Governmentwide financial management system that integrates Federal Agencies, the Department of the Treasury, and the Office of Management and Budget financial results. This would include not only Federal Award/Expenditure reporting, but also include obligation and performance reporting. Such integration will minimize reconciliation problems that will exist with the disparate reporting by the Federal Agencies, Department of the Treasury, Office of Management and Budget and the Recovery Board as envisioned by the OMB Guidance Memorandum M-09-10 and the OMB Architecture requirements. 
 
 It is foolish for the American Taxpayer to pay for the triplication or quadruplication of Federal financial reporting results. Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the Constitution signed on September 17, 1787 fully expected a central Treasury preparation of a " regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money… " without duplication. Such reporting is presented in the Monthly Treasury Statement and Combined Statement of Receipts, Outlays, and Balances. 
 
 The foregoing consolidated Treasury reporting can be accomplished by accessing existing Federal Agency Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Core Accounting Systems and expand the use of Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) software for data collection of sub tier contractor, grantee, and loan transactions as required by OMB Circular A-127 and OMB Circular A-130, Section (8)(b)(1)(b) as well as the transparency legislation. In addition the existing FSIO Account Classification Coding Structure provides the standard for Federal financial reporting and is being expanded into a larger civilian agency taxonomy, i.e., Common Governmentwide Account Classification (CGAC) structure complemented by a Standard Financial Information Structure used by the Department of Defense. If the FFATA, EESA/TARP, and ARRA legislation needs any expanded data elements, they can be incorporated into the foregoing current Federal financial taxonomy's. 
 
 To further reduce the overexpansion of the Federal Government's information technology infrastructure, the Treasury Consolidated Governmentwide Financial Management System could reside in the Shared Service Provider (SSP) environment of the National Center for Critical Information Processing and Storage (NCCIPS). Through the use of Enterprise Data Warehouse and parallel processing technology the new SSP could meet scalability and response time requirements related to a virtually limitless requirement for financial and performance data for analysis and query purposes envisioned by the legislation. Finally, a SSP environment meets the OMB Financial Management Line of Business (FMLoB) requirements. 
 
 The Federal Government has financial and technology business and migration plans in the Financial Management Line of Business (FMLoB), Account Classification Code Structure (ACCS), Common Governmentwide Accounting Classification (CGAC) &amp; Standard Financial Information Structure (SFIS), Centers of Excellence (COE), and Shared Service Provider (SSP) initiatives, now is the time to follow the foregoing initiatives and plans and not create new and duplicative financial management reporting requirements. 
 
 Bottom line, place the Federal Government's financial management responsibilities where they are Constitutionally mandated, use the existing FSIO financial management plans, and include ARRA's $800+ Billion, TARP's $700 Billion and FFATA's $1.5 Trillion in expenditures into a comprehensive system. All of the foregoing $3 Trillion in spending will impact the current financial crisis and not just the ARRA funding 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-of-key-performance-indicators-as-oversight-tool
 
 
 Use of Key Performance Indicators as Oversight Tool
 
 Development of Standardized Key Performance Indicator (KPI) reporting bottoms up: at the recipient/applicant level, at the state level, at the Federal Agency level and, ultimately, for all of ARRA (aggregation of all levels). 
 KPIs can be developed for all relevant programs and act as early warning system/risk assessment method for capuring status of projects and distribution of funds. 
 A KPI framework for ARRA: 
 Using DOT funds (this can be done for all programs) KPI reporting can be developed as follows: 
 Applicant Level - KPI to measure procurement type (e.g. fixed price, unit price, GMP), contract size, original budget, current budget, cost at completion and amounts expended, funding sources, change orders, schedule - NTP, 50% complete and 75% complete, substantial and final completion, requests for information (RFI), % funds reviewed for financial compliance versus amounts submitted for payment, davis bacon compliance 
 State Level - aggregation by applicant, contract type, project type (for testing price), project size, NTP, 50% estimated completion data and final (projected and actual), budget/cost information aggregated by applicant, funding information aggregated by applicant/project typ 
 Federal Level - similar roll up by state/applicant if necessary. 
 ARRA - aggregation of federal agency/state 
 Threshold of acceptability for data points can be used to generate dashboard reporting and act as proactive early warning system of potential non compliance with ARRA requirements/fraud or other desired measurable parameter 
 
 
 This is important as this structure can be scaled quickly once parameters are known. This approach is IT netral: one of many solutions can be used to set up this methodology using thin IT applications. This approach can implemented quickly accross multiple organizations operating differently, procuring differently. This approach extracts mission critical information under a wide range of organizations. THis approach can be developed to be used in reviewing submitted payments using ARRA funds prior to payment and has been used successfully on programs of similar scale. This idea is a key tool in developing risk provides for all levels of ARRA. Tihs idea extracts data needed to test for fraud/abuse. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/gear-up-partnerships-for-success
 
 
 Gear Up, Partnerships for Success
 
 It is a great program, run with gov't. money, but too much of these funds are wasted on luxurious trips for seminars/training. Too much travel expense wasted, almost like the villified banks and their luxury junkets that public outrage is forcing to cancel. Where is the public outrage about this? These are gov't. $$$$$$$$$$'s that could be better spend on expanding a very worthwhile program. 
 
 It stretches the gov't dollars further, does more good, wrings out the abuse/waste. If the gov't. is seen as just a pork-barrel boon-doogle it sends a very bad signal to a populous that is truly hurting and looking for relief. We do not need more examples of 'gov't waste' for the right-wing talk radio to use against the administration. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/lay-a-foundation-for-a-seamless-audit-trail-with-xbrl-gl-and-xml-security
 
 
 Lay a foundation for a seamless audit trail with XBRL GL and XML security
 
 Leverage emerging XML-based standards specifically designed to securely and authentically lay down the foundation for the seamless audit trail 
 
 Leverage the syntax and semantics of XBRL GL - the XBRL Global Ledger Framework (1) - the standardized, single, global, holistic, generic and XBRL-based representation of operational, business and accounting data, including invoices, checks/cheques and other payments, customers and vendors, and other related business facts (2), and the unambiguous link to both underlying transactions (on the source side) through end reports based on XML Schema and XBRL for external reporting. Although there are numerous excellent frameworks for transactions with standardized building blocks that should also be considered, XBRL GL is uniquely designed a.) for historical batches of information, b.) to capture multiple accounting methods simultaneously with full reconciliation and c.) to summarize (roll up) in different ways for different end reporting. 
 
 Use XBRL GL for standardizing data collection from disparate systems, both as a means to monitor transactions in real or near-real time, and to provide complete drill-down data associated with XBRL-based external reports as proof of completeness. 
 
 Support the collaborative development of XML/XBRL-based risk and control information that leverages XBRL GL and XBRL for external reporting (3) and encourage its provision. 
 
 Leverage XML Security standards, including the XML Signature and XML Encryption Recommendations from the W3C (4), to secure confidential information at the data item, rather than file, level. Require extensive filing, but permit encryption of information that may be considered competitively sensitive and personally identifiable information; XML Security at the data field level permits selective unfolding of the information to appropriate parties. 
 
 (1) <a class="external-link" href="http://www.xbrl.org/GLTaxonomy">http://www.xbrl.org/GLTaxonomy</a> 
 (2) <a class="external-link" href="http://gl.iphix.net">http://gl.iphix.net</a> 
 (3) <a class="external-link" href="http://www.oceg.org/Details/GRC-XML">http://www.oceg.org/Details/GRC-XML</a> 
 (4) <a class="external-link" href="http://www.w3.org/2008/xmlsec/">http://www.w3.org/2008/xmlsec/</a> 
 
 The XBRL Global Ledger Framework (XBRL GL) provides a common way to reference, represent and access information that flows into an ERP system or consolidation tool at any point, is integrated anywhere along the audit information supply chain, and provides the drill-down support for end reporting. XBRL GL has been developed to meet the needs of businesses of all sizes, as well as those for whom such standardized representations is important, such as software developers, financial and tax auditors (5) , and others with whom companies wish to or need to exchange such information. XBRL GL has been designed to help facilitate the "seamless audit trail" (6) , even across a diverse data environment, which would be very desirable in today's information environment. 
 
 XBRL GL has the potentially to not only help meet the external transparency requirements of detailed reporting, providing a common face to the payments and other required information, but also can help management have better control of its own information, promoting better internal operations as well. 
 
 Promoting XML Security standards not only moves authentication and privacy from databases, networks and files to documents, it also helps lay a foundation for greater trustworthiness for XBRL external documents and accountability for all manner of internal electronic standards. 
 
 (5) <a class="external-link" href="http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/14242/OASIS_XML_Position_Paper_for_Tax_Administrations_v2-01.pdf">http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/14242/OASIS_XML_Position_Paper_for_Tax_Administrations_v2-01.pdf</a> 
 (6) <a class="external-link" href="http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/16709/Tax%20XML%20AuditTrail_60215.doc">http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/16709/Tax%20XML%20AuditTrail_60215.doc</a> 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/restoring-integrity-and-enforcing-it-at-the-same-time
 
 
 Restoring integrity and enforcing it at the same time
 
 President Obama must begin by appologizing for appointing transgressors of integrity to positions that could have been easily filled by someone whose integrity was unquestionable. He must also remove from his advisory staff those who recommended he go ahead with such appointments in spite of such obvious transgressions. One example his secretary of treasury. Then he must set up an agency that publically makes know and prosecutes anyone who uses such funds to enrich their own pockets directly or indirectly through some form of unwarranted, unjustified, or outright absurd bonus. Being able to get away with fraud or some form of action not in the best interests of the taxpayer must be given zero tolerance. In other words the fear of being caught with your hands in the taxpayers pocket must be restored that did not exist during the eight years of the criminal administration of George Bush. Confidence in the integrity of government and its effectiveness must be restored in order to attract those of the new generation who maintain ethics, values, and morals consistent with what is in the best interests of the taxpayer. Thus the taxpayer will no longer be able to justify not paying taxes by thinking he is just giving money to a bunch of crooks or to those who will waste money on projects that will only benefit a few. 
 
 Because without it, those of the new generation that our government can most benefit from The idea that a politician is just a legalized crook will continue. Otherwise the idea that the US government is easy pickings for clever criminals or unethical behavior will attract the worst people in our society as did the Bush administration. When will there be an investigation and prosecution for those in the Bush administration that commited acts against the interests of the taxpayer. Forgetting the past contrary to advise given by Obama´s advisors is the best way to insure ill advised or unwarranted practices continue into the future. This is even true in such a case as torture. By not holding those in the highest positions of government accountable for their transgressions gives a green light to those in the future who might consider similar policies during times of national emergency. Intelligence without wisdom has often been demonstrated during the first 100 days of Obama´s presidency. This must change immediately by replacing those intelligent people on his advisory staff lacking wisdom with those that have both. This most likely will remove the majority of his advisors, but such an action will enable President Obama to become the greatest contributor to humanity this century. i advise many more female advisors also as compassion in policy is very important, a characteristic often conditioned out of the male gender from a young age to fill the ranks of the armed services. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/a-universal-information-access-system-is-the-key-to-stimulus-success
 
 
 A universal information access system is the key to stimulus success
 
 
 
 Just as computers moved from the early 4-bit processors to 32-bit processors so will the 64-bit processors become a standard for all types of devices. This provides an opportunity to create an access system that would require every information source in the system to have a unique 64-bit identifier. With this identifier code a source can assign its unique data identifier and know that in a worldwide database it will remain unique either as public or private information. The distinction between public and private information can be assured by the use of one bit as part of the 64-bit identifier. Access to these documents could be facilitated by the international adoption of phonetic sequences to correspond to new universally constructed symbols identifying less than one hundred characters. Telephone or computer keypads and screen presentations could be controlled by two shift keys, one for information keys and one for local languages. The reason for more information characters than required for 64-bit identifiers is to provide for worldwide address identifiers with greater accuracy than US zip codes and integrated with a GPS system. One category of private records of interest to some in every government is medical records. The next administration will undoubtedly push the computerization of health records. I have recommended the creation of a public-private corporation that would, subject to the Courts, assure the privacy of such records. The individuals using unique identifier only could be entitled to two identifiers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My idea addresses the problems of delivery, storage, and retrieval of
the world's knowledge. Just as the world has evolved a universal set of
mathematical symbols and phonetic sequences, it now needs a similar set
for effective universal access to information. By starting now
assigning producers of information a unique identifier and providing
them with a structured 64-bit coded format for their unique
contribution, it would be possible to handle the world's information
resource---providing access to public information and protecting
private information. Implementation of the concept has implications for
US foreign and domestic policy----Peace Corp, education and public
service, and the role of intellectual property in a digital world. As
James Bullington wrote, "Even the best infrastructure projects are only
successful in the long run to the extent they facilitate changes in
people ---new attitudes, new knowledge, new ways of doing things." FSJ
October 2008. 
 The idea is important for the following reasons: 
 1. If the Bush Administration had accepted my proposal (see huc.com) the system could be operating today with the half billion dollars spent on the FBI IT disaster. 
 2. Information is the foundation of civilization. A universal information system can have a positive impact on foreign policy, education, health information systems, and on all apects of social and economic policy. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/live-view-of-infrastructure-projects
 
 
 Live view of infrastructure projects
 
 Install webcam at each location. Cache video to monitor progress and allow review. 
 
 Transparency and accountability. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/information-mgt-disciplines-trusted-transparency
 
 
 Information Mgt Disciplines = Trusted Transparency
 
 As a veteran of many efforts that enable widespread information access (i.e., "transparency") to some of the largest, most complex and most diverse information environments in the world, Teradata is well acquainted with the challenges inherent in not only standing up an initial system but also in the accommodating the ongoing maintenance and expansion demands that will undoubtedly come from end users wanting more and more information. If it's one thing we've learned from end users, the initial questions are only precursors for many, many more. 
 Experience has taught us that providing "trusted" transparency in an "ecosystem" of millions of transactions being executed by thousands of individuals representing 1000's of organizations both public and private, along with their disparate organizational and technical capabilities requires a common set of "nomenclatures" by which all activities are ultimately governed by. Contractors, Suppliers, Agencies, Individuals, Policy codes, Accounting codes,.…..all need to be identified, maintained and communicated in such a way that proper transparency and decision making can be executed with the upmost confidence in the data being used. Failure to do this will only lead to "fact-based chaos". 
 The reality of providing this capability is daunting when one considers the vastness of the people, processes, organizations and technology involved and the realization that it is impossible to assume that processes and systems can be conformed in total to provide the consistency of information exchange required. To address this reality, there are several imperatives that the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board should consider when setting direction on how to accomplish such a task: 
 · Centralization of data onto a common data model - this solution cannot be delivered by stringing together a series of independent systems and databases - the associated integration and maintenance costs along with the data inconsistencies make anything but a centralized model absolutely impractical. 
 · Centralized governance of business rules and policies regarding information exchange WITH a distributed, self-service model for ensuring conformance among participating agencies and organizations. In short, in order for organizations to participate in any funding and transacting, they will need to become good "stewards" of the information by keeping up with any necessary correction, cross-referencing, etc. of information before it can be deemed "accepted" into the centralized system used for analysis and reporting. 
 · Significant leverage of available data quality and standardization tools &amp; services to reduce the amount of manual intervention required to address data conformance issues. Tools that allow a system to identify when data has been incorrectly entered and possibly even self-correct the data based on pre-defined policies and rules can significantly improve the quality of the data while reducing the time required to maintain that quality. 
 · Implementation of Data Quality audits. These DQ audits should be "instrumented" directly into the centralized system and as part of the overall governance process executed by the IGs. The DQ audit should effectively report on the policies and rules established for the various data subject areas (e.g. Contractors, Suppliers, Agencies, Individuals, Policy codes, Accounting codes, etc). 
 · Think incremental development steps. Boiling the ocean doesn't work. Development priorities should be set in a manner that allows increasing functionality to be delivered every 60-90 days. 
 · Pay attention to the human change management dimensions of this effort. The technology, while daunting, is easier than the human/organization/behavioral aspects. 
 
 
 With respect to the Recovery.Gov effort, we feel that it is vital that the central information foundation adhere to consistent definitions as it is used to provide organizations and individuals with appropriate insights into the usage of funds and to support the detection of fraud and waste. Otherwise, the credibility, and thus any hope of real transparency, will be lost immediately, resulting in un-told negative reactions and political consequences. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-preservation
 
 
 Data preservation 
 
 The data needs to be archived and preserved for at least 25 years. The duration is really dicated by the government roles. 
 
 To be able to investigate froud and mismanagement of the fund, it is important to have the data preserved far more than the life of stimulus program. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recovery-gov-needs-to-be-accessible-and-understandable-to-the-public
 
 
 Recovery.gov Needs to be Accessible and Understandable to the Public
 
 Data on on the Recovery.gov website should be displayed in a manner that allows non-expert users to easily observe the flow of federal funds and the impact those funds are having. Two dimensions should be paramount in making decisions how to display information on Recovery.gov: data knowledge of the user and technology skills of the user. Recovery.gov should serve those at the low end of both dimensions, but not at the expense of the high end for each dimension. At a minimum, the data should be searchable by: - Recipients (including all tiers of subrecipients) of federal funds - Geography (state, congressional district, street address, ZIP code, census tract) - Project type - Federal agency - Number and type of jobs - Dollar amount - Other criteria 
 Further, Federal spending data should be displayed in a format similar, but not necessarily identical to the federal government's USASpending.gov. Although the user interface of the site could be improved, it should serve as the basis for how the data should be displayed. The principle is that the public should be able to search by federal agency, company, state or city, for example, to obtain aggregate information and then drill down on specific transactions. 
 
 While access to raw data through feeds and other technologies is important to measure the success of the Recovery.gov website and the overall stimulus effort, the true test of whether this transparency can be used as an accountability tool will be the extent to which the public engages in monitoring and tracking the stimulus implementation. Without the public's involvement, the ability to hold those in power accountable using the data that will be available on Recovery.gov will be limited. Having a site that is accessible and understandable for the public is crucial to realizing the goals being this unprecedented level of government transparency. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/oregon-stimulus-transparency-accountability-tracking-system
 
 
 Oregon Stimulus Transparency &amp; Accountability Tracking System
 
 A high degree of transparency and accountability is expected in the way the American Recovery &amp; Reinvestment Act funds are spent. The Oregon Stimulus Transparency &amp; Accountability Tracking System (ORSTATS) is one of the key tools to provide that transparency and accountability. ORSTATS includes three primary components: 
 · a database to capture information about stimulus expenditures 
 · a reporting tool to monitor individual projects and programs 
 · a mapping tool to visualize the data and track the impact of stimulus funds 
 Transparency is our ability to see where stimulus funded activities are taking place in Oregon. Accountability is seeing that stimulus dollars are spent responsibly and JOBS ARE CREATED or PRESERVED in the locations where the dollars are spent. 
 Governor Kulongoski's Economic Recovery Executive Team (ERET) has declared that ORSTATS is the single system for planning, tracking and reporting on all stimulus expenditures for which the Governor's Office and state agencies have reporting responsibilities, regardless of which agency or organization receives recovery funds. The ERET has also made this system available to local governments and other ARRA fund recipients for their use in planning, tracking and reporting stimulus expenditures. 
 The web-based maps and information will allow state agencies and local governments to plan, track, and report on stimulus spending to achieve the greatest possible impact. The web-based maps will allow Oregonians to see how and where economic stimulus funds are spent and the economic impact of those expenditures on their communities. 
 ORSTATS will provide agencies the ability to plan where stimulus dollars are spent based on the greatest likely impact. In some cases, that will be the potential for creating jobs, but it could also be the potential for lowering crime rates, hunger, homelessness, or student-teacher ratios, or perhaps raising student proficiency levels. 
 Once the dollars have been spent, ORSTATS will provide agencies the ability to track and report on many measures of impact. Visualizing potential and actual impact on a map provides a quick and easily understandable picture of stimulus effectiveness for government agencies and the public. 
 
 
 Knowing where stimulus dollars are spent is the only way to track the impact of those dollars in relationship to the problems they are intended to resolve, like unemployment, crime, hunger, homelessness, improved education, sustainabile energy development, etc. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/catalog-manage-and-present-recovery-locations-on-digital-maps
 
 
 Catalog, manage and present recovery locations on digital maps.
 
 Create a GIS system to catalog, manage and present recovery efforts. 
 
 Maps are easy for the public - and for administrators - to understand and use, spurred by the internet mapping explosion; and the GIS behind the maps presents a high performance, robust information framework. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/web-3-0-a-free-wiki-for-executable-english
 
 
 Web 3.0 -- A Free Wiki for Executable English
 
 There is a system on the Web that works as a kind of Wiki, for content in open vocabulary, executable English. As you know, English text (like this sentence) is normally something for a person to read, but it cannot be used as a program that you can run on a computer. On the other hand, executable English is something that a person can read, and that you can also run on a computer. As befits a Wiki, shared use of the system is free. Just point a browser to www.reengineeringllc.com . Since the executable knowledge is in English, Google indexes and retrieves it, acting as a kind of registry. You can use your browser to write programs in English, run them, and get English explanations of the results. Applications of the system include: Answering Questions about Stimulus Data, Risk Analysis, Reasoning over Taxonomies, Knowledge Based Data Mining, Business Intelligence, and Supply Chain Management. Please see [1-6]. To use the system there is nothing to install. Simply point your browser to the site below, to run the examples provided, and to write and run your own examples. As mentioned, shared use of the system is free. Please be aware that anyone on the web can view, run and change anything that you write into the shared area. There is also private group use -- please see www.reengineeringllc.com/terms_and_conditions.html . Apologies if you have seen this before, and thanks for your comments, Adrian Walker, CTO, Reengineering [1] www.reengineeringllc.com/A_Wiki_for_Business_Rules_in_Open_Vocabulary_Executable_English.pdf [2] www.reengineeringllc.com/Oil_Industry_Supply_Chain_by_Kowalski_and_Walker.pdf [3] www.reengineeringllc.com/ibldrugdbdemo1.htm (Flash video with audio) [4] www.reengineeringllc.com/EnergyIndependence1Video.htm (Flash video with audio) 
 [5] https://www.reengineeringllc.com/demo_agents/Stimulus_Arkansas.agent 
 [6] Internet Business Logic A Wiki and SOA endpoint for executable open vocabulary English Online at www.reengineeringllc.com Shared use is free 
 
 It's a way for people to social-network about knowledge in executable English. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/information-data-security
 
 
 Information &amp; Data Security
 
 Prioritize the security of networks, messaging and information, in the collection and sharing of data, as a critical part of the development of new applications to support government programs. 
 
 As service-oriented infrastructures become ever present, and information is exchanged across agencies and b/w public-private partners, it is imperative that this information be secured in order to prevent unauthorized access, misappropriation, and fraud. 
 This is also critical to ensure information assurance, integrity and availability are maintained to support organization's mission goals. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-and-provide-a-basis-for-cost-performance-comparisons-or-benchmarks
 
 
 Create and provide a basis for cost/performance comparisons or benchmarks
 
 Ultimately, the recovery act is about creating jobs in a way that's better than paying people $XX thousands of dollars per year for meaningless tasks. Some programs may create jobs at a cost of several times what other programs will cost...Recovery.gov should not just let people see what the cost differences, but should provide a standard for comparison and display variances from the standard or benchmark. For example, if the Recovery Act creats a broadband or health IT job, did the average overhead cost for creating the job cost 20% or 120% of the total annual wages for that job? What jobs cost more to create? After this data is published, people will have a basis for reviewing and understanding effectiveness and efficiency of Recovery Act spending. 
 
 People are going to be shocked at what it costs the government to create some jobs, but need to context to have a valid review. Providing benchmarks or standards will help people understand the cost of job creation, while focusing criticism on outliers. If standards or benchmarks are created, people will also be able to investigate inappropriate behavior or wasteful programs that show up as excess costs for creating a job. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/virtual-health-care-record-system
 
 
 Virtual Health Care Record System
 
 To create a virtual Health Care record system. Similar to your Social Security records, this one will follow you. This will give you a front end interface where you can edit and update your information and at the same time provide approval for Doctors to update your records all entered in to a single Database available. 
 
 Centralization of Health Records, accurate assesments, More rapid availability of Records. In addition is a Green intitiative. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/help-for-the-homeless
 
 
 Help for the Homeless
 
 Create an State by State database that takes a cencus city by city of info concerning what sources are availabe for housing. 
 
 Allot of people take this issue for granted. I for one did until it happened to me. There is no help for a Single, White, Male to get safe housing, in one of the highest paid per capita counties in NM. I have searched Fed. State, county help centers to no avail. I was appauled to learn that an Ex-Convict or an ilegal immigrant can receive more help than a tax paying-law abiding citizen. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/trust-enablement-metamodel
 
 
 Trust Enablement Metamodel
 
 You asked for ideas and approaches for a 
 
 Metamodel
 for Recovery.gov that considers data models used by source systems 
 Recovery.org should provide a suite of infrastructure services that, regardless of the site's content or the user community it serves, all services delivered provide maximum value to stakeholders. 
 Principles 
 A trust-enabling infrastructure should be guided by principles. For example: 
 Improving trust in the information provided by recovery.org can produce significant social, political and economic benefits; A trust strategy will be a component of recovery.org's overall information delivery strategy; A trust-enabling services infrastructure will support all information facilitated by recovery.org; The trust-enabling services infrastructure will be reusable, based on consistently defined frameworks (organization, policies, standards, procedures, methodologies, as well as services and technologies) that can be shared consistently throughout recovery.org on behalf of the users (human and technology-based) of its infrastructure services; and The trust-enabling services infrastructure will be sufficiently flexible to evolve and adapt to changes in the environment and government objectives. 
 Framework 
 The trust-enabling infrastructure should be structured based on a metamodel that comprehensively defines the high level considerations required to achieve specific trust objectives. An example is the Trust Enablement Framework, described starting on page 13 of "<a class="external-link" href="http://trustenablement.com/local/Trust_Measures_and_Indicators_for_Customers.pdf">Trust Measures and Indicators for Customers</a>". The document describes, and provides examples for, each element of the framework, explaining how they contribute to achieving specific trust and business objectives. 
 Metamodel 
 The following is an illustrative example of a metamodel for creating subordinate data models, based on the Trust Enablement Framework described in the document above: 
 Experiential Sources of Trust (transparency) 
 Reporting of anomalies Transaction tracking Feedback forums Escrow services Performance Verification Identity verification Support responsiveness Fulfillment metrics Tracking status of applications/proposals Satisfaction with funding process Comparative economic impacts Privacy protection experiences Confirmations of transactions Access to person offline etc. 
 Interpretive Sources of Trust (expert opinions) 
 Provision of adequate information User awareness program Seals of approval Known merchant seals Security and Privacy seals Brands Security &amp; Privacy policies on web site Presentation Regional/cultural perspectives Service/performance opinions and grading Value appraisals Quality of service rating Fair, ethical and responsible business principles assertions Published FAQ/Help Available technical support Rating of site and services Assurance rating Disclosure of funding sources Supporting brands Co-branding Frequently Asked Questions Assertions of competence Assertions of fairness Associations and affiliations Reputation etc. 
 Empowerment (choice) 
 Reliable providers of feedback Referral to other sources Evaluating recommenders Links from other trusted sites Recommendations from other sources Introduction &amp; matching services Voting Opting out etc. 
 Motive Forces (rules) 
 Redress mechanisms Rules for information protection Laws and/or regulations that protect privacy Governance structures and practices Recourse mechanisms Business policies and practices Safe harbour investigations Disallowed conduct and services Dispute resolution IP Infringement policy Commitment Organization's integrity Values of participants Ethical standards Enforceability of conduct Regulations Culture Common social or legal code Community member interdependence (continuity) Motivation to deliver value Individual ethics Organizational charter Incentives etc. 
 Proficiency (ability) 
 Security controls Current technology IT scalability Privacy controls Dependable technology Knowledgeable and competent staff Operational resources Reliable processes Information protection functionality Information validation functionality Secure infrastructure Operational resiliency Ability to deliver expected value Controls on use of information etc. 
 Risk Transference 
 Contract formation Liability protection User agreement Fraud protection insurance Satisfaction guarantee Warranties Insurance Credit protection Fiduciary responsibilities Privacy guarantee Confidentiality guarantee Identity theft guarantee Accountability Inducements etc. 
 
 
 Content is valuable only when it contains relevant, new information
that can be relied upon to improve decisions-making. The quantity and
quality of content alone is therefore not going to be sufficient to
make recovery.org a success. A well-designed trust-enabling
infrastructure, defined as part of the baseline metamodel, can
significantly contribute to the value delivered to each user and the
business outcome. A trust-enabling infrastructure should help to
establish (develop) trust by introducing relying parties to intrinsic
(experiential) and extrinsic (interpretive) sources of trust, and
enabling them to identify and leverage their preferred source(s) of
trust in order to sufficiently validate all the information being relied upon to form opinions and make
decisions. The trust-enabling infrastructure should also help to ensure
(preserve) trust by protecting relying parties with governance
services, risk sharing services, controls, and processes that ensure
the continued reliability of information. It seeks to appropriately balance requirements for control with aspirations for trust. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/marketing-presenting-the-data
 
 
 Marketing/Presenting the data 
 
 My interest is in the marketing and presentation to the public of the data. What ever methods is used it must be displayed to the public in plain and simple terms that is easy to read and easy to access. Most people are familiar with a bank statement (I almost said check book ledger but then I would be showing my age) so use that format to show the starting amount and then the debits and credits as they occur--with a brief explanation of them linked to a more thorough report if needed or wanted. 
 
 If you want to insure the public is accessing you must link to something that affects their day to day lives or is enjoyable. i.e. the webcam with the puppies that was the most accessed site ever. 
 
 
 If the public doesn't see how this money is being used you will lose support for the effort! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/sortable-data
 
 
 Sortable data
 
 I've need an easy way to retrieve all project information and the ability to sort it geographically (state, county, municipality, and lower if possible), by agency, and by other relevant fields without going to specific agencies, states, counties or municipalities. 
 
 This facility will allow users to easily obtain information about specific areas, states and local governments, and contractors easily. After all, isn't this the purpose of recovery.com? 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/communication
 
 
 communication
 
 You can take all the time in the world. Do the most complete investication of all the topics. Have the very best data, and facts. But if you do not put it in the correct language, the people you are trying to reach, will be un-reachable. My point is this. I have read through a good deal of your program here. I understood very little of it. The governor of Oregon pasted a law that requires all the state paper work to use, Plan-Talk. You people are talking way over the heads of the regular citizens. You are out of the game before the first pitch. Please forgive my spelling. I could not find a spell checker. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/utilizing-xbrl-to-provide-intelligent-data-communications
 
 
 Utilizing XBRL to Provide Intelligent Data Communications
 
 The solution for ARRA reporting requirements should consider the use of eXtensible Business Reporting Language for the communications &amp; interactions of the various entities that have to report on stimulus expenditures. XBRL is an industry standard that does more that just provide an XML format. Actual business process steps and integration to existing applications in the ARRA eco-system would benefit from using an open standard approved API capability. The presently recommended selection of Atom 1.0 or RSS is not going to scale well as daily volumes of data increase and syndication systems typically have no mechanism for guaranteed delivery of messages. XBRL is already being incorporated into the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and will be used to establish the single authoritative data repository where all transactions involving those funds will now be tracked and reconciled. 
 
 ARRA needs a highly capable method of providing for communications between disparate systems. In most cases the only thing those systems will have in common with Recovery.gov will be the use of an XML model. This interaction layer between dispersing entities and the reporting to OMB via Recovery.gov will be the most critically important aspect of any solution adopted by the Federal Government. An open standards based solution such as XBRL enables every reporting entity to supply performance metrics back to OMB in a consistent manner. This is essential for entities to report accurately so that the data as viewed from Recovery.gov reflects reality in how funds are being consumed. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/using-proven-best-practices-real-world-use-for-tracking-funds-programs
 
 
 Using Proven Best Practices, Real-World Use for Tracking Funds, Programs
 
 Implementing a proven COTS solution that has been adopted to track Recovery Act funds and programs. IBM has announced that the Arkansas Department of Education has selected the IBM Economic Recovery Fund Tracking Technology. 
 
 LITTLE ROCK, Ark. and WASHINGTON - 28 Apr 2009: The State of Arkansas will be the first to implement real-time technology to monitor its spending of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funding grants. IBM technology will be used to track stimulus funds and meet federal requirements, part of the state's effort to ensure effective use of stimulus resources for improving education programs. 
 
 Over the next six months, the Arkansas Department of Education is scheduled to receive up to $569.9 million in stimulus funding. The money will be distributed to the state's local education agencies for public school education, specifically to increase students' academic performance, narrow the achievement gap, provide targeted services for low-income students and those with disabilities, create facilities that promote student learning, and expand the use of technology. 
 
 With billions of federal dollars on the way, local governments throughout the U.S., as well as federal agencies, are seeking new and improved methods to quickly disburse and track the largest government spending program in decades. To meet the challenge -- and established federal law requirements -- the Arkansas Department of Education has contracted to use IBM's Economic Recovery Fund Tracking technology to quickly monitor and analyze the effectiveness of economic recovery spending programs. 
 
 The State of Arkansas has also established a website www.recovery.arkansas.gov to track spending and results. Plans are to incorporate the school information into a reporting system that is both accessible and easy to understand by Arkansas citizens. 
 
 "The ability to quickly monitor, control, and report on stimulus grants is critical to generating the most benefit to citizens, and ensuring transparency and accountability," said Gerry Mooney, IBM General Manager, Government. "Advances in financial management technology can play a crucial role in helping governmental organizations manage spending in real-time and demonstrate that their programs are having a positive impact in their community." 
 
 Funding requirements in the ARRA include unprecedented levels of transparency and accountability to ensure efficient and effective use of resources, including a Recovery Board and built-in measures to root out waste, inefficiency, and unnecessary spending. Recipients of federal dollars will be expected to report their use of funding within ten days of October 10, 2009, a requirement that will test government organizations' ability to maintain complete visibility into each dollar allocated and spent, and report back on progress in a timely and accurate fashion. 
 
 IBM Economic Recovery Fund Tracking Technology 
 The IBM web-based technology dashboard combines the latest business intelligence and performance management technologies, together with access to financial management experts with government experience, to help clients quickly monitor funding effectiveness, track jobs creation, and analyze the overall success of economic recovery spending programs. The solution enables government managers, governors, mayors, and federal agency leaders the ability to track individual program performance against allocated budgets, and adjust plans accordingly to ensure optimal delivery. For example, if an education project has reached 56 percent completion but the managing agency has already spent 66 percent of the economic recovery funds, the system will immediately alert program managers. 
 
 The solution is intended to be used by State and Local, and Federal, government managers responsible for identifying initiatives and pinpointing economic recovery funds, as well as those tasked with executing, measuring and reporting on complex programs. 
 
 The technology solution is based on secure, open software that enables a completely integrated exchange of spending information online in order to: 
 
 Monitor Funding : Monitor and measure the receipt and disbursement of current and future monies that fall under economic recovery programs for a complete view of all funds. 
 
 Track Key Performance Indicators : Track the progress and results of each program such as job creation, retention and other measures, against monies spent on specific initiatives such as education, healthcare, transportation, social services, among others. 
 
 Analyze Effectiveness : Comprehensively track the results of multiple complex programs where funds from economic recovery programs were invested and how those programs are performing against goals, and in comparison to other agencies and states. 
 
 Increase Transparency and Accountability : Detailed, OMB compliant reports for use with lawmakers and citizens showing how funds were invested, who is responsible for the invested funds, what programs have been funded, and program results to date. 
 
 IBM is working with more than 2,000 Federal, State and Local government agencies -- including eight of the largest cities in the United States, and 31 of the 50 U.S. states -- as well as international governments and organizations, to improve financial management systems and business processes. 
 
 
 A proven solution that is working at the state level should be considered at the federal level. This will allow for consistency in both the data definition and aggregation and also the end user interface as they access information. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/direct-access-to-bulk-data
 
 
 Direct Access to Bulk Data
 
 Recovery.gov has the potential to help the public make sense of the vast amounts of data that will be generated by reporting on stimulus spending. APIs, visualizations and aggregate statistics will no doubt be valuable features of the eventual site. However, priority must be given to making the underlying data readily available. Bulk downloads of submitted data should be made available through a simple interface -- an anonymous FTP server or a web server with directory listings enabled would do the job nicely. The bulk data itself should come from a location in the reporting chain as close to its origin as is possible -- although some sanitization may be necessary prior to public consumption of the data, the ideal scenario would allow normalization, standardization and other "cleaning" to be be replicable by the public using open-sourced tools applied to the original data. 
 
 Recovery.gov is an exercise in transparency; but transparency is meaningless if the information conveyed is not verifiable. Providing source documents is the best means of satisfying the need for legitimacy. It's also worth keeping in mind Linus' Law, the open source chestnut that says that "given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow." Providing interested parties with as much information as possible will allow more and better conclusions to be drawn about recovery activities, and will make possible visualizations, mashups and tools that might not be possible with derived data products. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/provide-a-friendly-visual-user-interface-to-government-data
 
 
 Provide a friendly visual user interface to government data 
 
 Government agencies hold Terabytes of data that is inaccessible to users in its native format. A visual user paradigm enables a much broader set of users to access and understand the data, creating new opportunities for constituents to understand how and where their government is delivering services. Agencies can use public services where available, in combination with their own data to create new visually consumable content. 
 
 It is not enough to simply provide data to constituents. Data should be presented with context in order to make it effective and understandable. An easy way to do this is by providing a visual interface utilizing existing investments and data. There are solutions available today that make data more effective with little development work and utilizing existing infrastructure within government agencies. 
 
 An example of where existing investments can be applied to provide a more effective view of the data is Microsoft's <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/industry/government/solutions/Single_View_Platform/default.aspx" target="_blank"> Single View Platform </a>. This solution makes use of capabilities that agencies already possess coupled with public service mapping capabilities to deliver a geographic view of complex information and data sets across multiple roles and location. The Single View Platform provides: 
 
 · Comprehensible visual presentation of data. 
 · Access to real-time or near real-time information. 
 · Integration of multiple information sets from disparate sources. 
 · Sharing information inside and outside the agency, with restricted access controls. 
 · Interoperability with existing and legacy systems. 
 
 A Single View Platform solution can be deployed using the existing agency investments coupled with public data services to enable transparency and accountability quickly with limited additional expense. 
 Javier Vasquez Manager - Application Platform Microsoft Federal 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/xbrl-meets-the-needs-for-openness-and-transparency-for-aara-money
 
 
 XBRL meets the needs for openness and transparency for AARA money
 
 As Controller of the State of Nevada, my state supports the commitment to openness and transparency in tracking grants and other financial information to better the operation of government. We believe the open, Internet-enable, public-private standard called eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) (<a href="http://www.xbrl.org/"> www.xbrl.org </a>) is the most logical XML standard to pursue because it allows the sharing of critical financial information across multiple agencies and departments running on different software/incompatible systems. Currently, aggregation of data for appropriations, revenue collection, and regulatory reporting is extremely difficult and costly for each of the agency jurisdictions within my state. The resulting information may be too late for real-time decision making, and too complex for anyone but a professional auditor to understand and analyze. 
 
 In my state, we have made the decision to move forward using the XBRL business reporting standard. With the removal of manual manipulation of the data, we have strengthened our internal controls. I believe XBRL would be perfect for ARRA (stimulus reporting) and TARP funding transparency as well. 
 In the United States, XBRL is currently being used by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) which is composed of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Office of Thrift Supervision for bank calls reports of more than 7,500 US banks reporting to the government. <a href="http://www.xbrl.org/CaseStudies/FFEIC_XBRL_06.pdf"> http://www.xbrl.org/CaseStudies/FFEIC_XBRL_06.pdf </a> Under the XBRL system, 100% of bank filings meet requirements for mathematical accuracy and 95% meet other quality requirements. The comparative figures under the old system were 30% and 66%. They have seen faster data inflow. Banks now file within hours of the start of a filing period rather than weeks later. This reflects the fact that they are now able to respond to reporting requirements more quickly and ensure data accuracy more easily. They have seen increased productivity. Each analyst can now cover 550-600 banks compared with 450-500 previously, an increase in productivity of about 20%, reflecting improved data quality and analytical capability. They have seen faster data access. Data is now available for use within a day of receipt, compared with several days under old, cumbersome validation processes. Quicker release enables faster and better informed decision making by agencies in protecting the public interest. They have also seen improved control of reporting XBRL enable changes in reporting requirements to be communicated and adjustments made by the reporting community within minutes or hours, compared with days or weeks under the old system which required significant manual intervention. 
 
 The US SEC has issued a rule in late December that 500 of the largest US companies will begin reporting their financial statements in XBRL standard starting June 15, 2009 to provide greater transparency and investor access to critical information driving our capital markets. <a href="http://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2009/33-9002.pdf"> http://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2009/33-9002.pdf </a> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The data can be tagged and sent to OMB's or Treasury's sites for processing and also made available to the public on the Internet pursuing an e-government policy for better transparency and accountability. Today, each federal agency is asking for a certain type of reporting. If everybody reported to these agencies using XBRL standard they can pull the reports and take the specific data elements they need and put them into reports they need for oversight and accountability. This will elimante the need for different reports to be prepared by the States. This is what is being done in the Netherlands where one business reporting standard has been created using the XBRL standard. 
 As the US government looks at XML data standards it's critical that these standards be developed in concert with all the players of the financial information supply chain in open collaboration. XBRL is an ideal business reporting standard that can help both states and federal agencies provide greater transparency and accountability. It is also consistent with the Obama Administration's efforts to support an e-government platform to better empower citizens and supports greater transparency and accountability. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/nutrition-facts-type-label-for-legislation-and-budget-facts
 
 
 "Nutrition Facts" type label for "Legislation and Budget Facts"
 
 
 Of great use for the rapid comparison of resolutions and
bills would be shorthand "Nutrition Facts" type labels associated with each
major section of legislation. These could be used to ascertain a rapid
understanding of the cost and cost benefits of a particular bill or and its
sections. Instead of "fat, cholesterol, sodium, and carbohydrates" citizens
could understand between, say, eight and fifteen key aspects. The simple
graphic device could include: 1) how locally or nationally scaled is the
legislation (community or facility; county level program, state or national
level); 2) who implements the program (private or public); 3) is this an open
bid, or targeted contractor undertaking; 4) is this a federally funded program,
or will states have to raise funds to support; 5) does the law sunset, or will
it need annual budgetary support; 6) what percentage of the US population is
directly affected by the legislation, etc. 
 
 Although seemingly complex, all this information could be assimilated
into a small graphic display that would allow very rapid comparison across many
bills. The GAO in combination with a task force of voluntary, impartial,
private government watchdog groups could provide the initial recommendations
for the design of such a Legislative "Financial/social Facts" type of label. It
would provide a significant amount of sunshine in a compact space and permit first
level data and visual sorting of the national budget. 
 
 
 
 In order to allow citizens to gain insight into the workings, politics, agendas, objectives, and ultimately, the cost of every legislative decision, the government needs to meet their "clients" at an appropriate level of communicative clarity. Professionals require good data and the cane work with varied toolsets to access that data. But, just as the essentials of processed food can be visualized through myriad views, so can legislation. Although it would "round the corners" of complex legislation and budgets, a matchbook visualization would be an entry point for all Americans. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-forms-to-allow-the-american-people-to-connect-with-their-leaders
 
 
 Create Forms to allow the American people to connect with their leaders
 
 My Idea is to create a web based forums that bridge a gap between the american people and the government leaders in a very easy and established format. 
 I think posting spending data is great but what will really make the people get involved is having them feel they have a voice to make comments and have leaders respond to those comments. Have simple debates online by issue/state/red flags etc. Have polls of hot topics of the week. Get great hidden Idea's from people who have them. Have feedback on elected officials on thier performance and good work. 
 This will fix the disconnect people often feel between the government leaders and having their voices heard. 
 As this American Forums evolves every elected Fed positions should interact with this forum and have there own section for there own positions and topics and respond to members comments or concerns. 
 They should also get ratings for there number of posts, etc. and involvement with this community. 
 
 
 This will revolutionize the way the leaders can take the pulse of the american people faster and have more accountability on there actions. It will also inspire the next generation of how government interacts with the american people and have them involved more as clients then countryman. 
 This will also help to devolve the Media as the primary means of communicating with the busy american people and allow true voices to be heard on given subjects. 
 All voices can be heard without bias and leaders can be ranked on performance. 
 Creating this environment will give the government a platform to revolutionize how it can interact with the american people and make it more agile just like a good performing business. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/customer-experience-analysis-needed-on-recovery.gov
 
 
 Customer Experience Analysis Needed on Recovery.gov
 
 Colleagues: You need to do customer research before you even ask these questions. The "average" customer is not going to aggregate your data. Providing the data in accessible formats for programmers in government, non-profits, and private industry is great, but that doesn't substitute for doing basic customer research and analysis, and designing your site along customers' top tasks. It's as if you're dumping a bunch of vegetables and puddles of oil and a scaly fish on the table and saying, "Here's your dinner - enjoy!" 
 Who - specifically - are the customer segments you are trying to reach with Recovery.gov? What - specific - tasks will they perform when they come to your website? How - specifically - will they measure their success? When you know this information, you can stop spinning your (pretty) wheels. 
 If you don't do this analysis, it's like getting dressed and going out without putting on underwear. You are working without your foundation. 
 I recommend you hire an experienced user experience analyst to provide this guidance. 
 
 To not do so having been notified constitutes Waste of government
funds; Fraud in pretending to be transparent when you're really being
opaque; and Abuse of your customers. User experience best practices shows you should be spending 10% of your design and development budget on UX tasks, and you're clearly not. 
 I work for USA.gov and would be happy to point you in the right
direction to a vendor. (I've already done this but I'm happy to do it
again.) Thanks for the opportunity to comment. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/require-consistent-recordkeeping-practices-for-all-stimulus-fund-recipients
 
 
 Require Consistent Recordkeeping Practices for all Stimulus Fund Recipients
 
 To require compliance with a program that demonstrates transparency, oversight and accountability by maintaining precise and authentic financial and administrative records for allocating and disbursing funds. 
 Provide a methodology for a standardized audit and oversight, and ensure that information is ready for future FOIA requests and examinations. 
 
 Adherence to Generally Accepted Recordkeeping Principles sm will result in standardization of documentation as it relates to the appropriation of the funds. 
 The audit function can be standardized across all entities that receive federal funds leading to clear and transparent interpretation of results. This will enable effective oversight and consistent reporting to the taxpayers of the United States. 
 Recipients should be advised to develop programs that adhere to the following Generally Accepted Recordkeeping Principles sm : 
 · Principle of Accountability 
 An organization shall assign a senior executive who will oversee a recordkeeping program and delegate program responsibility to appropriate individuals, adopt policies and procedures to guide personnel, and ensure program auditability. 
 
 · Principle of Integrity 
 A recordkeeping program shall be constructed so the records and information generated or managed by or for the organization have a reasonable and suitable guarantee of authenticity and reliability. 
 
 · Principle of Protection 
 A recordkeeping program shall be constructed to ensure a reasonable level of protection to records and information that are private, confidential, privileged, secret, or essential to business continuity. 
 
 · Principle of Compliance 
 The recordkeeping program shall be constructed to comply with applicable laws and other binding authorities, as well as the organization's policies. 
 
 · Principle of Availability 
 An organization shall maintain records in a manner that ensures timely, efficient, and accurate retrieval of needed information. 
 
 · Principle of Retention 
 An organization shall maintain its records and information for an appropriate time, taking into account legal, regulatory, fiscal, operational, and historical requirements. 
 
 · Principle of Disposition 
 An organization shall provide secure and appropriate disposition for records that are no longer required to be maintained by applicable laws and the organization's policies. 
 
 · Principle of Transparency 
 The processes and activities of an organization's recordkeeping program shall be documented in an understandable manner and be available to all personnel and appropriate interested parties. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/the-government-needs-to-learn-about-modern-enterprise-search-software
 
 
 The government needs to learn about modern enterprise search software
 
 The government needs to learn about the power of the latest in data analysis and data warehousing software. The latest tools can handle massive amounts of data, proactively looking for fraud and other irregularities. 
 
 
 
 I fear that the government's understanding of technology is out of date. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/this-site-is-painfully-slow-make-this-site-run-faster
 
 
 This site is painfully slow! Make this site run faster!
 
 This site is no fun to use. Loading takes way too long, and there is no real dialog happening. 
 My substantive contribution is here: 
 http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/organize-participation-through-coalescent-bubbling<a class="external-link" href="organize-participation-through-coalescent-bubbling">http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/organize-participation-through-coalescent-bubbling</a> 
 
 People will get a very negative view of government's ability to build web interfaces if you keep building them like this. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recoverytv-a-web-tool-for-the-public-to-monitor-use-of-recovery-funds
 
 
 RecoveryTV: A web tool for the public to monitor use of recovery funds 
 
 ITT proposes RecoveryTV, a web tool to communicate with the public on the use of recovery funds via video. The concept is to place a custom online video portal on Recovery.gov with channels for each Recovery government agency (see non-interactive mock up at <a href="http://www.visionvideoinc.com/recoverytv">www.visionvideoinc.com/recoverytv</a>). An online video portal could also be incorporate into each government agencies Recovery website with channels for each division. Existing videos from agencies can be incorporated as well as produced updates. Testimonials from individuals who have benefited from Recovery funds could also be produced and featured. ITT has the expertise to develop RecoveryTV and oversee the video production for the channels. Here's a link to an interactive demo: <a href="http://www.visionvideoinc.com/tv">www.visionvideoinc.com/tv</a>. 
 
 
 According to a recent eMarketer survey, more than two-thirds of respondents said they will focus their budgets on online video this year. 
 More than one-half of respondents also expected to be implementing or extending an online video project in Q2 2009. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/job-o-meters
 
 
 Job-o-meters
 
 The Feds develop a national jobs reporting rubric (saved and created) and all ARRA projects must be required to comply right up front: all proposals need a jobs column in order to even be considered. 
 As projects get rolling, states feature job-o-meters to disclose and count jobs on their web-based 'recovery' sites -- the Federal site should do the same. 
 A huge illuminated counter needs to be installed in Times Square to chart the national progress. 
 
 
 In the end, ARRA will only work if it saves and creates jobs. "One area where we believe states would benefit from Federal assistance is with the calculation of jobs, both created and retained, and particularly those characterized as either indirect or induced. There is some data and methods available for estimating such job figures in particular policy areas, however we believe the best way to arrive and report on jobs is to have the states supply raw data, and to have the Federal government model and report jobs data. 
 Testimony by Timothy Gilchrist (Office of NY Governor David A. Paterson to the House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Hearing on April 21, 2009) states the need succinctly: 
 
 The effort to report on jobs would benefit greatly from a common set of tools - developed by the Federal government, and made available to states, local governments any other direct ARRA-fund recipient." 
 <a href="http://oversight.house.gov/documents/20090420195930.pdf"> http://oversight.house.gov/documents/20090420195930.pdf </a> 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/considering-alternate-platforms
 
 
 Considering alternate platforms
 
 There are many great ideas in play on this site. Our suggestion is to provide a simplified condensed version of these through alternate platforms. These can take several forms- 
 • physical kiosks in communities with low computer access 
 • mobile applications, which have much higher penetration and connectivity than computers among immigrant / poor populations 
 • Xbox Live or other virtual communities 
 • On-demand applications on TV platforms 
 We have used these in the past (mobile most successfully) to reach out to various segments of the public. As most respondents in this forum are largely web-centric (hey they wouldn't have such good ideas if they weren't ahead of the curve!) we suggest at least experimentally approaching some of these alternate platforms. 
 
 
 
 
 It's a big country out there, and many folks don't live on the web
(yet!) and are often off the grid. The very essence of democracy depends on the ability to reach
out to all, and in turn give all the ability to engage in our American
conversation. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/why-a-conventional-it-approach-may-not-be-sufficient
 
 
 Why a conventional IT approach may not be sufficient
 
 "The expenditure and use of recovery funds" in your question may not necessarily reveal how recovery is progressing because the purpose of spending the recovery fund is to alleviate hardship and tragedy and to hasten recovery wherever possible. 
 
 This idea is intended to trigger lateral thinking by others as to how new and existing IT products may be adapted to measure the results of a human endeavour which does not have any commercial precedent. 
 
 To be blunt the whole way of thinking about recovery funds needs to be different. 
 
 This is because most commercial software is designed to monitor progress and expenditure in Companies who intend to produce an income stream or a product that can be traded for profit. Other types of software like Expert Systems are used by a wider audience to collect and analyse data e.g. Marketing; Research; Mineral/ Oil prospecting etc. 
 
 Let us look more closely at the problems faced when using recovery funds: 
 (I have used a metaphor here to simplify the concepts involved): 
 
 Imagine the American economy is a patient with multiple ailments. The Recovery Program brings to this patient a whole range of treatments intended to get them back onto their feet. Treatments will include: A whole variety of palliative care (creating short term jobs); Different types of placebos (to raise hopes and expectations); A range of medicines (to stimulate enterprises and long term jobs) and new regimes of exercises for mind and body (education, re-training, acquiring new practical skills and expertise) etc. 
 
 In some cases treatments may produce unforeseen and therefore previously unquantifiable results. e.g. Building a new infrastructure may lead to new uses of the infrastructure. Installing low energy lighting may start a new industry designing and manufacturing suitable replacements for existing light fittings. 
 
 When the patient does shows signs of recovery it will be impossible to determine how much each treatment has contributed since all of them were applied during the same period to different parts of the patient. The only thing of any certainty will be the improvement in our patient's health. 
 
 Though the recovery problem is far more complex than described above the embedded principle remains - What happens to the recovery fund is undeniably important but measuring the patient's state of health is vital too! 
 
 This is why thinking beyond monitoring the expenditure and progress of Recovery Projects is important! 
 
 I mentioned the need to trigger lateral thinking to adapt or re-engineer IT solutions because the requirements of Recovery Plans are so different from those of a business. This time outcomes may be extremely difficult to measure in terms of money or profit since these were never the object of the exercise even though some recovery projects will produce savings as a by-product of creating jobs e.g. lower energy bills; fewer blackouts; better communications; faster journey times etc. 
 
 
 The lateral thinking that this idea attempts to promote relates to what information <a href="http://www.recovery.gov/"> www.Recovery.gov </a> will need to report the changing health of the economy. 
 
 This idea also shows why it may not be possible for <a href="http://www.recovery.gov/"> www.Recovery.gov </a> to attribute economic progress to what was spent and what was done by individual recovery projects. 
 
 It is for the Recovery Team and their supporters in the IT industry; the academic world and elsewhere, to make their contributions here though I have set out below a few thoughts that came to mind: 
 
 Historically freight movements were used to measure the US economy. It may be worth recording the levels of energy and raw materials consumed (fuel; gas; coal; cement etc.) as well as the changing balance of payments between imported and exported goods. The time taken to complete journeys in specific areas may reflect delays due to infrastructure repairs or changes in commercial activity (congestion). The level of stewardship required to manage empty properties and the number of filled and vacant places for academic, vocational and work related training etc. etc. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/accountability-and-transparency-have-been-the-focus-for-many-years
 
 
 Accountability and Transparency have been the focus for many years
 
 ARRA is nearly a trillion dollars over a relatively few years. In terms of scale, the closest single block of expenditure that is represented by that scale is the budget of the DoD. In FY09, that budget was over $500B, not counting the war appropriations. Clearly, the efforts that DoD has accomplished over the last 2 or 3 years to achieve taxpayer accountability and transparency for DoD are the closest set of reusable design patterns to achieve a scalable set of solutions to meet the needs of recovery.gov. 
 DoD Design patterns for achieving accountability and transparency are varied and not necessarily in sync with each other. But they have some very well established and accepted commonalities with much of the discussion that I have seen all accross the current dialogue, with the exception of one. In order to deal with the means to articulate the mechanisms of change on such a scale, enterprise architecture must be the basis of that change. GAO and the DoD have embraced that concept, as has OMB through the FEA. In fact, it was congress that enforced that approach in the National Defense Authorization Act of FY05. 
 The DoD approach (<a href="http://www.soamag.com/I25/0109-2.asp">http://www.soamag.com/I25/0109-2.asp</a>) is based on change as articulated through EA, Governance of change through CPIC and Investment Management and a technical approach based on SOA principles and technology. Recently, at the DoD SOA Symposium in April of this year, many real solutions for data visibility, service governance and change management were presented. OMB participated in the event. Data associated with this symposium and about DoD accountability and transparency initiatives can be viewed at <a href="http://www.bta.mil/products/bea/html_files/soa.html">http://www.bta.mil/products/bea/html_files/soa.html</a>. 
 Without going significantly deeper, the DoD approach incudes realizations of such concepts as Data Virtualization, unantipated user discovery of services and data, trust in authoritative data, data mediation and integration and most importantly Information Assurance and user authorization and attributes. 
 The idea is simple, build from what has already been learned and proven. Join forces with the DoD business operations to achieve the focused requirements of recovery.gov and you establish the basis of solving even greater needs for accountability and transparency that have been wanted and needed for decades. 
 
 For well over a decade, the Federal Government has been grappling with accoutability and transparency of taxpayer funds. Initiatives have lived and died attempting to resolve issues like "unqualified audit opinions" for Federal Departments and Agencies and proliferation of IT to achieve stovepiped functional capabilities. It can readily be documented that 100's of millions of dollars have been spent just articulating what accountability and transparency even means. What has been missing in achieving this goal is two basic enablers. The first is the technology to achieve a solution that is scalable to both the size of the Federal Government and the broad spectrum of unique requirements embedded within the various Federal Departments and Agencies. The second enabler missing is the will and determination to overcome the obsticles that naturally occur in an organization the size of the Federal Government. 
 The economic conditions facing the taxpayers of the U.S. warrent the response that the ARRA has enabled and the recovery.gov initiative is that commitment to the taxpayer that not only is that response happening, but it will be effective, efficient and focused on meeting the goal of re-establishing the U.S. as a global financial leader and posied for growth for future generations. It can be thought of as that "JFK - Go to the moon by the end of the decade" focus that has been lacking in so many of the mechanisms of change needed by this country. Now we can apply that focus to real Government Accountability and Transparency for the taxpayer. And not just for ARRA funds, but for all Government. 
 ARRA is nearly a trillion dollars over a relatively few years. In terms of scale, the closest single block of expenditure that is represented by that scale is the budget of the DoD. In FY09, that budget was over $500B, not counting the war appropriations. Clearly, the efforts that DoD has accomplished over the last 2 or 3 years to achieve taxpayer accountability and transparency for DoD are the closest set of reusable design patterns to achieve a scalable set of solutions to meet the needs of recovery.gov. GAO has been moderately supportive of these efforts and approaches, but has questioned the committment. The committment being choked by the limited funds applied to achieving the solutions. The synergy of the ARRA committment and DoD approaches could very well achieve a sustainable outcome in the timeframe being promised to the American Taxpayers. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/hire-amazon
 
 
 Hire Amazon
 
 Seriously. Somebody was really thinking when they figured out how to compile a list of "recommendations" based on what I've bought. 
 
 It sounds flip, but I don't mean it to be. I mean: hire some really smart, really progressive, thinkers to this. 
 Don't settle for some .ftp site that displays folders and files. 
 A government site doesn't have to be archaic and boring. Really. Let's show that government 2.0 can actually produce innovative, useful, functional, effective, websites. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/transparency-needs-cios-chiefs-of-staff-and-igs-focusing-on-irm-not-it
 
 
 Transparency needs CIO's, Chiefs of Staff, and IGs focusing on IRM, not IT
 
 The Federal Agencies and Bureaus assigned responsibility for their parts of the ARRA need to fully follow the law in managing their organization's information resources , not just their information technology. 
 The most effective and efficient means of managing information resources is to use a consistent "terminology" method across all of those organizations. See the other ideas on this site relating to terminology (including enterprise architecture), as the basis for a consistent organization management life cycle, as the basis for consistent management controls, as the means to achieve appropriately secured and shared operational transparency, accountability, and discipline. 
 The CIO's need to establish the mechanism for organization terminology (methodology, metamodel, supporting technology, infrastructure), while the Chief of Staff or equivalent would be responsible for its cross-organization content and use, and the IG and auditors would use it to ensure effective and efficient organization, functional, program, and project operations management, and the contribution that the governed terminology makes to that management success. 
 
 A tool is not the solution if the problem is not understood. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recovery-gov-website-improvements-data-standardization-and-analysis
 
 
 Recovery.gov Website Improvements - Data Standardization and Analysis
 
 OMB needs to identify "best performers" among projects operating under similar environmental circumstances (e.g., following a data envelopment analysis). Performance is then determined by identifying how efficiently each unit converts inputs into outputs and outcomes, which are of interest to decision makers. From a management standpoint, lower level performers in a given group could then be encouraged to benchmark against the lead performers in the group to determine which strategies implemented by the lead performers are applicable to their own operations. Practically, OMB needs to: 
 
 Group the projects using similar characteristics. For example, all construction projects could be grouped by the following attributes 1) locality, 2) type of structure, 3) socio-economic conditions, etc. 
 
 Identify the inputs, outputs, and outcomes used to evaluate performance (i.e., determine the metric that could best compare the data) that can be tracked across all the projects in the grouping. Ideally measures would be nationally-accepted benchmarks. 
 
 Compare the projects and identify the lead performers. 
 
 Identify the strategies implemented by the lead performers through focused interviews / data gathering and disseminate those strategies to lower level performers. 
 
 Publicize the accomplishments of the lead performers. 
 
 
 Analyzing the project using a data envelopment analysis helps to identify the lead performers and highlights potential strategies that could be used by the lower level performers. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/spending-taxonomy
 
 
 Spending taxonomy
 
 Create a taxonomy of spending categories that are balanced against both government and citizen interest areas 
 
 Before data can be properly analyzed, it needs to be categorized. The benefits of a single expenditure might not be readily seen, but if categorized properly and if the the allocation is split, the sub-categories of the expenditure will allow people to see the various topics that the expenditure was applied against. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/enable-an-interconnected-discussion-of-the-recovery-act-through-standards
 
 
 Enable an Interconnected Discussion of the Recovery Act Through Standards
 
 Enable an Interconnected Discussion of the Recovery Act Through Lightweight Standards: Towards an Open Public Integrated Architecture 
 Recovery.gov should use and promote certain lightweight standards that
others can adopt for their own web sites that would enable search
engines, aggregators and discussion forums collect and show the
resulting related discussions. It would make it easier for people and
organizations to self-publish their observations and results of the
Recovery Act and yet be part of a connected conversation and provide
opinions, data and reports that would be gathered for analysis. One
example would be to open up the time line on the home page of
Recovery.gov to show reports, comments and news related to the Recovery
Act that are pulled from other sites. Right now that data visualization
tool is only pulling from an internal list created. Instead of that
limited view of a handful of events, the time line could encompass
reporting from across state and municipal governments, business and
non-profit recipients, academic institutions, and individuals. Then
using a search tool, aggregation and/or trackbacks, those reports could
be gathered into the time line (the Recovery.gov could also allow for a
ping for those who want to make sure theirs are found). The reports
could be shown in their totality or filtered based on lenses or facets,
such as only governmental institutions reporting on amounts over $1
million or show just individuals comments from a certain state. And
other web sites could do their own collecting of the same web pages for
other data visualizations, analysis or for their own forums discussing
the reports. In order to make this a reality, there need only
be a set of lightweight standards envisioned in the Open Public
Integrated Architecture (<a id="q4se" title="OpenDialogCoalition" href="http://opendialogcoalition.org/">OpenDialogCoalition</a>).
Each participant could publish using their own web publishing tools on
their own or other hosted sites. Most of the standards would be as
simple as URL for citing the Recovery Act: citations to the Recovery
Act (see: <a id="p-sh" title="Reliable Electronic Citations" href="http://advocatehope.org/tech-tidbits/reliable-electronic-citations">Reliable Electronic Citations</a> and <a id="l3gy" title="Citability.org" href="http://citability.org/">Citability.org</a>). 
 
 Creating an open and frank discussion about the possibilities and
results of the Recovery Act is an important goal. Understanding that
much of the conversation and reporting may not be centralized, it would
be helpful to show that by just using some simple standard ways to
discuss and report on the Recovery Act is one big step towards that
goal. Also by not needing to post to a government site, also frees the
government from expending resources moderating every comment or report.
In addition, it would allow for outside parties to create new ways to
converse and to analyze the material more creatively than if the
government hosted the conversation. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/a-framework-of-arra-metrics-ensure-alignment-transparency-and-results
 
 
 A Framework of ARRA Metrics: Ensure Alignment, Transparency and Results
 
 Actuate for Stimulus Management provides government organizations with a means to kick start the management and communication of their Stimulus initaitives through use of leading edge technology already being used by many federal, state and local government agencies across the country today, The ARRA Stimulus Metric Framework is available to all new and current Actuate customers. 
 
 
 
 
 The cornerstone of Actuate for Stimulus and Recovery is the Actuate Performancesoft Suite, the most fully featured Performance Management application which includes a framework of over 250 pre-built ARRA metrics. Governments can effectively manage ARRA initiatives by providing insight into the performance of key metrics while allowing users to seamlessly drill down beyond the KPI by using Actuate BIRT- based Root Cause Analysis to investigate and report on the underlying operational details. 
 
 Here is a sample list of Government Organizations that Use Actuate: 
 City of Dallas, City of Chicago, City of Dayton , Ohio, City Of Gresham, City Of Long Beach, City Of Olathe, County Of King, County Of Lane, County of San Diego, County Of Westchester, Federal Aviation Administration,Florida Department of Transportation, Greater Cincinnati Water Works, Illinois State, International Trade Administration, Kansas Dept Of Social And Rehabilitation Services, Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, Mecklenburg County,National Nuclear Security Administration, New York City Dept of Health, New York Office Of General Services, New York State Dept of Motor Vehicles, New York State Dept of Taxation and Finance, New York State Division of Criminal Justice, New York State Office for Technology, NYC Department of Citywide Admin Svcs, Orange County California, Port Authority of NY/NJ, Prince George's County, Sacramento Regional County Treatment, Sandia National Laboratories, Santa Clara Valley Water District, Strategic Petroleum Reserve, The US Navy, US Army CECOM Acquisition Center, US Army Corps of Engineers - Rock Island, US Army Fort Stewart, US Army Security Assistance Command, US Department of Health and Human Services, US Department of the Air Force - Reserve Command HQ, US Dept of Energy, US Dept of Energy Bettis Lab, US Dept of Homeland Security - Border Pr, US Government Printing Office, US Marine Corps Logistics Base, US National Guard, US Naval Undersea Warfare Center, US Navy - Combat Direction Systems, US Navy Military Sealift Command, US Navy QFF Program, US Navy Strategic Systems Programs, Washington Department Of Retirement Systems, Washington Headquarters Services (DOD).<a class="external-link" href="http://www.actuate.com/why-actuate/applications/financial-recovery/">http://www.actuate.com/why-actuate/applications/financial-recovery/</a> 
 
 Features and Benefits 
 -Enhance transparency and accountability by regularly communicating results and outcomes 
 -Provide stakeholders the insight into the progress of every ARRA initiative for true accountability 
 -Leverage a pre-built ARRA solution that can be customized by any agency or level of government 
 -Provide dynamic Briefing Books, Strategy Maps and BIRT-based interactive reports to clearly communicate performance at all levels 
 -Provide a standardized framework of operational and strategic planning for ARRA programs 
 -Investigate the root-cause through seamless drill down to lower level transactional data 
 -Easily view information from any perspective such as the ARRA framework or add additional perspectives such as: the Balanced Scorecard, Malcolm Baldrige or Six Sigma. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-storage-for-paperless-medical-records
 
 
 Data storage for paperless medical records
 
 Provide a Smart Medical ID card for anyone who wants one to keep all personal (and family) medical records, but not billing information. Use existing security system that would require both a medical professional and patient to access information on the card with exceptions for emergency situations. 
 
 I recently heard an interview with a medical professional on the huge computer, data, and network complexities for sharing medical records digitally. The doctor was trying to make the point that a single practice with a hundred patients might need to share data on a single patient with many other practices and the possible combinations were huge. 
 Why not let the patient be the holder of the most up-to-date data and the individual doctors would have a copy of that data. I would go to my normal doctor with my card and they would update there information from my card. My doctor would make notes and update to my card. For a referral, I could okay the transfer to another doctor from my card. I would have my card when I go to the next doctor. Labs would share results with the doctor requesting and these would be applied to my card at my next visit. 
 Bottom line -- I should keep the main copy of my medical records, not the doctor. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/details
 
 
 Details
 
 Forget the pretty pie charts and graphs. Give us downloadable detailed data on how the money is being spent (dates, amounts, vendors, etc). As Ronald Regan once said, trust but verify. 
 
 Maybe reduce some of the waste and fraud that these programs will generate. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/local-government-using-an-existing-technology-resource-to-handle-arra-pro
 
 
 Local Government - using an existing technology resource to handle ARRA pro
 
 We utilize eCivis Grants Network: Tracking and Reporting to manage programs that receive grant funding in all stages - from inception to researching funding to application to award to setting up in our financial system to all phases of management and compliance. It is important to us internally in accounting, procurement, compliance, and auditing. We simply added a new department "Stimulus Funding" where all stimulus funded projects are maintained. This allows us to maintain an electronic file of important documents, deadlines, and other information. 
 
 This did not involve the purchase of a new system, or necessitate learning new technology to implement. We simiply had to clarify a few new procedures to all staff. Because this is a web-based system, it can be accessed from anywhere at any time. The system has a report builder function, so all users can develop the reports that are the most useful to them. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-warehouse
 
 
 Data Warehouse
 
 To collect, modify, and distribute
large collections of data a Data Warehouse is needed. A typical Data
Warehouse consists of two relational databases. One for Online
Transactional Processing (OLTP) and another for Online Analytical
Processing (OLAP). 
 
 The OLTP database shall be used to
collect, store, and process data from a variety of sources. The data
sources shall be a combination of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)
from external systems and manual entry by trained data analysts. 
The design of the OLTP database shall be of the third normal form. 
Such a design eliminates data redundancy, reduces storage
requirements, and allows high performance retrieval and modification
of data. 
 
 The OLAP database shall be a read only
database that provides simple, flexible, and high performance
reporting of data. This data shall be replicated from the OLTP
database on a periodic basis with automated processes. The design of
the OLAP database shall consist of multi-dimensional data
structures. Such data structures would allow, for example, project
reports to be generated based on location, costs, workers, status,
dates, etc. 
 
 These databases shall reside on Linux
servers. A cluster of two Linux servers working as one shall be
utilized for each database. This will provide for high performance
and uninterrupted availability. These servers shall use SCSI or
Fiber Channel drive arrays for reliable and scalable data storage. 
 
 All database designs shall be created
and maintained using a Computer Aided Software Engineering (CASE)
tool. 
 
 An Enterprise Relational Database
Management System (RDBMS), such as Oracle or DB2, shall be used. 
 
 User interfaces programs for working
with OLTP data and reporting OLAP data shall be developed. These
programs shall be accessible from an Internet browser. These
programs shall reside on a cluster of two Linux application/web
servers. Separating database and application clusters will enhance security and increase
the scalability and reliability of the Data Warehouse. 
 
 System interface programs for automated
loading of external data (EDI) into the OLTP database shall be
developed. 
 
 One or more persons shall be needed for
each of the following positions: 
 
 Application Specialist 
 Data Analyst 
 Database Designer 
 Database Developer 
 Database Administrator 
 Linux System Administrator 
 Network Administrator 
 
 Three complete and separate system
environments shall be utilized. One each for development, test, and
production activities. 
 
 I am a displaced IT worker with twenty
years experience. I am currently working on the 2010 Census as a
temporary worker. I am available and eager to work on this or any
other necessary projects. 
 
 J.K. Winkler 
 Ft. Worth, TX 
 <a href="mailto:kirkwinkler@yahoo.com">kirkwinkler@yahoo.com</a> 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/open-source-data-transformation-integration-tools-to-explore
 
 
 Open source data transformation/integration tools to explore
 
 Jitterbit <a class="external-link" href="http://www.jitterbit.com/">http://www.jitterbit.com/</a> 
 Talend <a class="external-link" href="http://www.talend.com/index.php">http://www.talend.com/index.php</a> 
 Mural <a class="external-link" href="https://mural.dev.java.net/">https://mural.dev.java.net/</a> 
 Apatar <a class="external-link" href="http://www.apatar.com/">http://www.apatar.com/</a> 
 Pentaho <a class="external-link" href="http://www.pentaho.com/products/data_integration/">http://www.pentaho.com/products/data_integration/</a> 
 
 
 Open source products are now offering data integration/ETL capabilities that rival commercial offerings. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/local-state-and-federal-planning
 
 
 Local, State and Federal Planning
 
 I keep hearing the terms "accountability" and "transparency" requirements for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) and think that it will be easy to accomplish. Having worked in public finance for municipal and federal governments, I believe that the federal side needs to understand how local and state finance operates, how the demographic and financial environments affect local and state fiscal conditions, create an information reporting infrastructure using XBRL, utilize "Service Efforts and Accomplishments" performance reporting, and integrate the environmental (demographic and financial factors) within localities and states utilizing the old tried and true "Financial Trends Monitoring System" introduced by the ICMA (International Cities/Counties Management Association) several years ago. The municipal, state, and federal financial technology platforms (public finance software) must be integrated least we spend more time "compiling" rather than "assessing and analyzing". In other words, make the information Web 2.0 compatible so that citizens can easily find out information about ARRA projects, costs, and and measurable progress. What is missing is "financial information reporting infrastructure" for combining ARRA local, state and federal goals, objectives, and performance by project and report on the "status" of the "Tasks" of these ARRA funded projects on a monthly basis. Citizens want "context". In other words, Recovery.Gov should provide a citizen with a graphical and tabular view of what "the current measurable economic and fiscal conditions" are within a community before ARRA (Recovery Act) a funded project begins. I would expect that some sort of employment, economic activity, and local CPI measurements would be presented as a "baseline" along with the specific ARRA funded project GOAL(s), OBJECTIVE(s) matched against each TASK within each project, and the OUTCOMES of each TASK as well as the entire ARRA Project. With Web 2.0, videos could be embedded to show "progress" by TASK, a graph of the budget being spent and the RESULTS of the Recovery Act investment. Recovery.gov would provide a citizen with information about "WHAT THE CONDITIONS WERE BEFORE HAND" which formed the basis of the Project's "GOALS, OBJECTIVES and PERFORMANCE MEASURES by each TASK' which will enable the citizen to assess, by the click of a mouse, whether the project accomplished what it said it would. This is online transparency and online accountability. With Web 2.0 citizens could ask questions or gain clarifications about these projects, which would establish a dialogue with the local, state or federal government undertaking the project. Creating a common financial information reporting infrastructure will also help the auditing and assessment efforts. The use of "status reporting", similar to "STAT" reports (see below) would provide more sets of eyes to interpret reported results. I am proposing that this financial information reporting infrastructure follow the outline below, and that the federal government technology and information efforts be utilized to implement this reporting using XBRL - enabling all local and state and federal governments to use XBRL for financial reporting. XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language) is an open standard that supports information modeling and the expression of semantic meaning commonly required in financial reporting. XBRL is XML-based and "tags" financial information to specific organizational components and financial components. Rather than uploading spreadsheets, public sector financial systems would report these ARRA projects through unique XBRL templates. In the context of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, we could start with what is currently published on "Recovery.gov" where the President has identified five "crucial" objectives. I would use these objectives and offer some REQUIREMENTS to be met for local, state and federal governments that receive ARRA funding to meet each of the President's objectives: 

OBJECTIVE 1 - RECOVERY FUNDS ARE AWARDED AND DISTRIBUTED IN A PROMPT, FAIR, AND REASONABLE MANNER; 

REQUIREMENTS FOR OBJECTIVE 1: 

1.1 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL PROCUREMENT SYSTEMS MUST USE THE SAME DATA FIELDS. Some sort of information technology project to adapt current state and local government procurement systems to accommodate the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) http://www.ccr.gov/ needs to happen very quickly so that the "awardees" contractor and subcontractor can be accounted for between the source (state or local award) and the federal agency. Central Contractor Registration (CCR) is the primary registrant database for the U.S. Federal Government. CCR collects, validates, stores and disseminates data in support of agency acquisition missions. If you are a business interested in doing business with the U.S. Federal Government, then you must be registered in CCR. As ARRA money is federal money going to local and state governments going to small, medium and large organizations (for profit and non-profit), what is the strategy for ensuring that they are registered within the CCR? The public sector financial software publishers (local, state, and federal financial and procurement software) must be called in to modify their software to accommodate the entry of this organization information into the CCR. It would seem that within public sector accounting systems the Accounts Payable (AP) and Accounts Receivable (AR) vendor files utilized for producing IRS Form 1099s is a "measurement focus" that could be monitored and reported on a monthly basis. This way, IRS Form 1099s related to ARRA funding should be correct as the management and internal control reviews would be undertaken monthly as payments are made. It would allow the ability to correct improper payments (complying with the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002 and Recovery Auditing Act of 2002) by having all ARRA funding recipients implement enhanced improper payment detection and prevention methods. This way, local, state and the federal Government can better ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and efficiently on a monthly basis using this information as a management control review tool. 

1.2 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL PROCUREMENT SYSTEMS MUST PORTRAY THEIR RESPECTIVE ACQUISITION PROCESSES. Not every local and state procurement process is the same, but we need to agree upon "what" should be reflected to portray the awarding and distribution of these funds in a fair and reasonable manner. What would that look like? I would think that the CCR would reflect the "type" of contractor and subcontractor, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code, business size, types of employment created and/or sustained, and some type of local or state procurement compliance metric would be helpful. Developed in cooperation with Canada and Mexico, the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) represents one of the most profound changes for statistical programs focusing on emerging economic activities. NAICS, developed using a production-oriented conceptual framework, groups establishments into industries based on the activity in which they are primarily engaged. Organizations using similar raw material inputs, similar capital equipment, and similar labor are classified in the same industry. Organizations that do similar things in similar ways are classified together. Classifying and reporting ARRA information by the "sectors" of the NAICS would enable local, state, and federal governments, citizens, and auditors to "see" the impact of stimulus monies through contracts by: 

A. GOODS-PRODUCING SECTORS: NAICS NATURAL RESOURCES AND MINING SECTORS- Sector 11 (Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting)- Sector 21 (Mining) NAICS CONSTRUCTION SECTOR- Sector 23 (Construction) NAICS MANUFACTURING SECTOR- Sector 31-33 (Manufacturing) 

B. SERVICE-PROVIDING SECTORS: NAICS TRADE, TRANSPORTATION, AND UTILITIES SECTORS- Sector 42 (Wholesale trade)- Sector 44-45 (Retail trade)- Sector 48-49 (Transportation and warehousing)- Sector 22 (Utilities) NAICS INFORMATION SECTOR- Sector 51 (Information) NAICS FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES SECTORS- Sector 52 (Finance and insurance)- Sector 53 (Real estate and rental and leasing) NAICS PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS SERVICES SECTORS- Sector 54 (Professional, scientific, and technical services)- Sector 55 (Management of companies and enterprises)- Sector 56 (Administrative and support and waste management and remediation services) NAICS EDUCATION AND HEALTH SERVICES SECTOR- Sector 61 (Education services)- Sector 62 (Health care and social assistance) NAICS LEISURE AND HOSPITALITY SECTORS- Sector 71 (Arts, entertainment, and recreation)- Sector 72 (Accommodation and food services) NAICS OTHER SERVICES SECTOR- Sector 81 (Other services, except public administration) NAICS PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION SECTOR- Sector 92 (Public administration) NAICS UNCLASSIFIED SECTOR- Sector 99 (Unclassified) The public sector financial software publishers must be called in to modify their software to accommodate the classification of organizations receiving contracts for ARRA work to utilize NAICS classification codes. As our economy is composed of different sectors, reformatting our local, state and federal financial systems to report on both obligations (encumbrances) by NAICS sector and outlays (payments) by NAICS sector would provide a quick status report on the specific "sectors" of our economy that are being stimulated. Note that the NAICS Sectors presented above are at the highest level, for NAICS codes have more detail. And the CCR, of course, requires organizations to register their NAICS code. Since we already have these systems in place, then why not use them to assess the effectiveness of the ARRA monies? 

OBJECTIVE 2 - THE RECIPIENTS AND USES OF ALL RECOVERY FUNDS ARE TRANSPARENT TO THE PUBLIC, AND THAT THE PUBLIC BENEFITS OF THESE FUNDS ARE REPORTED CLEARLY, ACCURATELY, AND IN A TIMELY MANNER; 

REQUIREMENTS FOR OBJECTIVE 2: 

2.1 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL FINANCIAL SYSTEMS MUST USE THE SAME DATA FIELDS. Some sort of information technology project to adapt current state and local government financial systems to accommodate the: • The "General Ledger" - create an enhanced a cross-walk between the United States Standard General Ledger (USSGL) and State and Local government General Ledger GL (Object Class, Cost Element). Investing in this change will allow for easier conversion. If all local, state and federal governments (hint, hint Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board - FASAB - and Governmental Accounting Standards Board -GASB) were to adopt the utilization of XBRL standards for government financial reporting, then the information could be posted along with a monthly budget status report, project status report, and a report on the status of a government's goals, objectives, strategies and performance measures for the fiscal year. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission at the federal level and the State of Oregon at the state level has experience utilizing XBRL for financial reporting. The federal government financial information technology experts could seize the opportunity of utilizing the SEC's and State of Oregon's "best financial practices" with XBRL to provide local, state and federal governments with a standardized and automated financial reporting tool. • The fund type of the recovery funding will inform the citizen where the federal money will reside and the accounting and budgeting rules the respective state or local government utilizes to disburse payments. There are reporting and usage rules regarding the different types of funds - similar to the bank accounts that local, state and federal governments post the recovery act monies. One of the golden rules of budgeting that may be broken is that of "one-time revenues going to one-time expenditures". Capital projects utilizing recovery act funding should disclose the fixed asset valuation before the recovery act funds are used, and after the recovery act funds are used. Annual maintenance costs should be disclosed for every capital project utilizing recovery act funds. 

2.2 STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS FINANCIAL SYSTEMS MUST BE ABLE TO INCORPORATE THE RECOVERY ACT PROJECT GOAL, OBJECTIVE, STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT INTO THEIR ACCOUNTING STRUCTURE. State and local government recovery reports must be designed to enable management, stakeholders, citizens, and employees to assess Recovery Act funded programs and financial performance as compared to its goals, objectives, strategies and performance measures and to use this information to make necessary assessments and improvements. I would envision that some sort of presentation of the following would be portrayed: • Recovery Act Project Name• Recovery Act Project Goal• Fund• Contract Number• Awardee(s)• Budget by:* Object Class* Encumbrance (Obligations)*Outlay (tie the outlay to jobs created or retained)*Remaining Balance • Recovery Project Plan by Tasks with:- Task Begin Date,- Task End Date,- Task Outcome/Deliverable,- Task Cost, and- Task Status. Local, state and federal government management would monitor and manage underperforming Tasks before the project fails. We would let the public "see" the status of all Tasks in all projects. • Performance Measures: Use the GASB's Service Efforts and Accomplishments (SEA) Model to keep it consistent: - Inputs (like the number of teachers, or tons of asphalt used to repair roads); - Outputs (such as the number of students promoted, or the number of potholes filled); - Outcomes (for instance, percentage of a high school's students entering college, or the physical condition rating of roads); - Efficiency (cost per pupil educated, or cost per pothole filled); and - Effectiveness (attainment of stated goals and measurable objectives). Use a simple "green", "yellow" and "red" coding to assess "where" planned performance is at. Do not wait until the fiscal year ends in order to assess performance, assess performance on a monthly basis. • Jobs Created, By EEO-1 Job Classification Category - • Jobs Retained, By EEO-1 Job Classification Category - The nine EEO-1 job classification categories include 1) Officials and Managers, 2) Professionals, 3) Technicians, 4) Sales Workers, 5) Office and Clerical Workers, 6) Craft Workers (skilled), 7) Operatives (semiskilled), Laborers (unskilled), and 9) Service Workers. Is it not practical to report on jobs created or jobs retained based on these existing categories to allow the public and decision makers to assess the impact of recovery act monies? Would it also be more practical to post the EEO-1 job goals against the actual jobs created or retained to see if these goals were met? As a refresher, here are the job descriptions of each classification category: 1. "Officials and Managers" includes jobs that require policymaking and overseeing responsibility. Examples are: executives, middle management, and salaried supervisors. 2. "Professionals" includes jobs that require college education or comparable experience. Examples are: accountants, architects, librarians, and teachers. 3. "Technicians" includes jobs that combine basic scientific knowledge, usually obtained through two years of post-secondary education, and manual skill. Examples are: computer programmers, junior engineers, and photographers. 4. "Sales Workers" includes jobs that primarily involve selling. Examples are: real estate agents and sales clerks. 5. "Office and Clerical" includes clerical, non-manual work. Examples are: bookkeepers and office helpers. 6. "Craft Workers" includes manual work that requires comprehensive knowledge of work processes. Examples are: building trade positions, mechanics, tailors, and bakers. 7. "Operatives" includes factory-types duties that require an intermediate skill level with limited training. Examples are: chauffeurs, laundry and dry cleaning operatives, welders, and inspectors. 8. "Laborers" includes manual work with no special training. Examples are: garage laborers and gardeners. 9. "Service Workers" includes jobs in protective and non-protective service occupations. Examples are: barbers, firefighters, door keepers, police officers, waiters, and guides. Local, State and federal agencies need to automate the EEO-1 Job Category reporting system (i.e., through payroll tax reporting and benefits paid by recovery act monies) to ensure that the jobs were real and payments to employees were made. Again, the federal government financial information technology experts have an opportunity for developing standards for "payroll system" architectures for organizations who "employ" workers with ARRA monies by the EEO-1 Category and by NAICS code. Now that it transparency - by "sector" and by "job classification". The audit community would have the opportunity to validate and verify this information on a monthly basis. FINANCIAL TREND MONITORING SYSTEM (FTMS) METRICS {see below} When an OUTLAY is made against Non-Personal Services (NPS) in the form of a PURCHASE ORDER and/or a Personal Services (PS) salary and benefit payment, it would be reported "when it happens". A discussion with all of the public sector financial system software publishers would be necessary to make this reporting consistent in all of the systems. I propose all of the systems being modified to accommodate this.Note that State Employment Security Offices would be involved to assess the EEO-1 Job Classification Categories. The local and state issuers of business licenses, who should also be required to utilize the CCR, would be brought in to assess whether or not they were licensed. The local and state finance offices would be involved in examining revenues as a result of their local firms being involved in Recovery Act funded projects. If one thinks about it, local, state and federal government jobs (Personal Services) or contracts for products or services (Non Personal Services) should have all ARRA outlays (payments) also linked to a NAICS sector and/or EEO-1 Job Classification. This way, there would be a linkage and alignment in assessing the number of teachers or public works staff being financed through ARRA money "when payments are actually made". Rather than waiting to the end of the project or fiscal year, citizens and auditors could examine and assess the relationship between the Input (money), Process (job or task or project being undertaken) and Output being undertaken. OBJECTIVE 3 - 

RECOVERY FUNDS ARE USED FOR AUTHORIZED PURPOSES AND EVERY STEP IS TAKEN TO PREVENT INSTANCES OF FRAUD, WASTE, ERROR, AND ABUSE; 
REQUIREMENTS FOR OBJECTIVE 3: 

3.1 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL MANAGERS NEED TO ESTABLISH MANAGEMENT CONTROL REVIEW SYSTEMS. Some sort of consortium with professional organizations (elected officials, state and city and county management, the audit community, state and city and county financial management, state and city and county technology management, state and city and county economic development, and state and city and county procurement management) should be used to develop and distribute some Management Control Review (MCR) policies and procedures to utilize. The purpose of a Management Control Review (MCR) is to evaluate the management controls of a specific activity and determine how well they promote good management. Additionally, the reviews will help local, state and federal governments utilize their ARRA monies more efficiently and effectively, and to provide a reasonable level of assurance that the process and products for which the local or state or federal agency is responsible is adequately protected. Rather than reinvent the wheel, utilizing a generic Management Control Review (MCR) policy and procedure that could be adapted to the specific environment could be undertaken by existing professional organizations and made accessible on the web to prevent instances of fraud, waste, error and abuse. The typical steps of Management Control Review consists of: 1) Conducting a Risk Assessment,2) Reviewing Internal Controls,3) Report Findings, and4) Monitoring. Why not develop an MCR policy and procedure incorporating these four steps now, automating them through a web based system (with the help of the federal financial information systems experts) to enable these "checks" and "balances" to be disclosed in "real-time"? 

3.2 UTILIZE LOCAL, STATE, AND FEDERAL AUDITORS. With the above systems already in place, the careful eye, expertise, and audits of our auditor community would be required. In light of the financial audits that every local, state and federal governmental entity must do, the audit community must weigh in on the timing and initiation of the Recovery Act audits. This raises some questions that need to be addressed: How does OMB desire local, state and federal governments to audit their ARRA funded projects? Can local, state and federal governments use a portion of the ARRA monies to have their external auditors perform an audit that is separate or part of the OMB Circular A-133 (Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations)? What should the specific roles of Inspector Generals at the federal level or audit officials at the local, state and federal levels be regarding: Making independent audits and investigations of their agencies' programs, operations, activities, and functions that are ARRA funded? Overseeing the work of non-Federal auditors performed in connection with Federal ARRA funded programs? Reviewing responses to ARRA related audit reports and reporting significant disagreements to the ARRA related audit followup official? 

OBJECTIVE 4 - PROJECTS FUNDED UNDER THE RECOVERY LEGISLATION AVOID UNNECESSARY DELAYS AND COST OVERRUNS; 

REQUIREMENTS FOR OBJECTIVE 4: 

4.1 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL MANAGERS NEED TO UTILIZE REPORTING SYSTEMS LIKE THAT SUGGESTED IN 2.2 ABOVE TO QUICKLY INTERVENING TO AVOID UNNECESSARY DELAYS AND COST OVERRUNS. Early intervention by managing projects and examining their status within their financial systems could be performed by conducting weekly (yes, weekly) status reports that are transmitted to Recovery dot com along with any remediation plans. With the advent of XBRL, it is time to have the FASAB and GASB oversee the development of the reporting of governmental budget, financial, performance, and project information on a monthly basis and eventually in real-time. The stimulus money could go far in investing in a project with the FASAB and GASB in automating monthly local, state and federal government reporting of financial, project, and performance results (unaudited) and at the end of the fiscal year post the audited results online. Take the guessing out of it. Use the technology and put accountability on line. 

4.2 REVIEW AND/OR APPROVAL BY FEDERAL AGENCIES OF LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL REMEDIATION PLANS MUST BE AUTOMATED. The success of the Obama campaign using new media and participatory democracy techniques has set high expectations for those same techniques being used in actual governing. I think the principles and practices of Web 2.0 can help bring increased ARRA transparency, public involvement and reduced cost to government. How will the federal, state and local technology experts integrate the aforementioned as a mechanism to quickly inform management and to make a decision to take remedial action? Web 2.0 must be used to help local, state and federal government ARRA projects easily report on their status, communicate issues and challenges, and collaborate with federal officials in resolving issues and challenges. I would imagine that a web-based form on Recovery.gov where a local, state or federal agency completes the information on an ARRA funded project could make decision-making more "fact-based". Remember, however, that unlike program and service Web 2.0 transactions, government financial transactions and reporting requires additional internal controls. Perhaps the Federal Systems Integration Office (FSIO) could develop some "ARRA Web 2.0 reporting standards" for local, state and federal governments to utilize. 

OBJECTIVE 5 - PROGRAMS MEET SPECIFIC GOALS AND TARGETS, AND CONTRIBUTE TO IMPROVED PERFORMANCE ON BROAD ECONOMIC INDICATORS. 

5.1 LOCALITIES AND STATES SHOULD USE THE FINANCIAL TRENDS MONITORING SYSTEM AS A COMPONENT OF THEIR PERFORMANCE REPORTING. The Financial Trend Monitoring System (FTMS), adapted from the system developed by the International City/County Management Association (ICMA), "identifies the factors that affect financial condition and arranges them in a rational order so that they can be more easily analyzed and measured." 

5.2. ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS 

5.2.1 COMMUNITY NEEDS AND RESOURCES • Population• Density• Age• Income• Property value distribution• Home ownership• Vacancy rates• Crime rate• Employment• Business activity The local, state and federal governments need to know what were the community needs and available resources based on the indicators above "before" and "after" the Recovery Act investments. Community needs and resources influences the demand for services as well as the capacity to generate revenues to fund these services. Add to this the cause and effect relationship of the financing of projects for medical care, transportation, education and green technology and citizens would have a clearer view of "what it is" we are trying to accomplish and "what the anticipated effect' we expect these projects to have on the variables cited above. I would expect that ARRA projects would address their anticipated impact on anticipated trends of population, density, age, income, property value distribution, home ownership, vacancy rates, crime rate, employment and business activity in the community. 
5.2.2 INTERGOVERNMENTAL CONSTRAINTS • Intergovernmental mandates• Tax restrictions The local, state and federal governments need to identify what were the intergovernmental constraints based on the indicators above "before" and "after" the Recovery Act investments. Are there any lessons learned or were laws, rules and regulations streamlined as a result of these ARRA investments? Will Recovery.gov track any new legislation at the local or state or federal level that must be modified in order to achieve a ARRA project goal or objective? These are a few value-added measurements that could make Recovery.Gov more informative. 

5.2.3 DISASTER RISK • Potential for natural disaster• Local preparedness Local, state and federal government need to assess their disaster risk before they received the Recovery Act investment and determine whether they were addressed as a result of receiving these monies. Mind you, if there is a natural disaster in a town, borough, neighborhood, city or county, then they are going to see whether local preparedness was addressed by local and state and federal emergency management agencies to be funded by ARRA monies. 

5.2.4 POLITICAL CULTURE • Attitudes toward taxes, services and political processes Local, state and federal governments have a once in a lifetime opportunity to assess the public's attitudes as to whether these projects were efficiently implemented, effectively met their performance measures, and whether attitudes about government have changed. Feedback is needed. 

5.2.5 EXTERNAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS • National & regionalo Inflationo Employmento Markets Local, state and federal governments need to tailor the economic analysis of specific areas and uses the NAICS data to assess expansion or contraction by sector of the economy, disposable income, housing, and employment. The federal government should work closer with local and state governments in assessing the components of the local Consumer Price Index (CPI) as a part of community and economic development initiatives. A measure of other federal aid (such as the SBA, EDA, MBDA, etc) should also be shared with local and state officials. The federal, state and local governments should post this on a Geographic Information System (GIS) so that the public can see where we are based on empirical data. I would expect that a database of organizations that undertook ARRA related projects that created or retained jobs within a locality would be posted on Recovery.gov. As the CPI may be influenced by uncontrollable variables (trends of population, density, age, income, property value distribution, home ownership, vacancy rates, crime rate, employment and business activity) in the community, that could be empirically shown on the website. Working with the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) and the colleges and universities that report CPI data, as well as the local and state economic development, housing, criminal justice, health care, transportation and education agencies to provide their assessment would make this invaluable. 

5.3. FINANCIAL FACTORS 

5.3.1 REVENUES • Growth• Flexibility• Elasticity• Dependability• Diversity• Administration Local and state governments need to carefully assess their revenue streams now and in the future. After all, investments in Going Green, transportation, education, automated health records, job training, affordable housing, and other areas need to assess when the return on the investments will occur, and how much it will impact the future government revenue stream. 

5.3.2 EXPENDITURES • Growth Priorities• Productivity• Effectiveness• Mandated costs Local and state governments must utilize their comprehensive plans and GIS to project growth. From these projections, plans must be developed which take into account the cost of implementing, the cost of no growth, and the cost of a decline in growth. This will have an impact on the future role of local and state government. I am envisioning the development of a "Stats" systems, where program/division/department/agency heads and representatives meet regularly with executive officials to discuss performance data and develop strategies to improve or sustain the performance of each participating program/division/department/agency. Meetings would enable program/division/department/agency heads, staff, and executive officials to review and analyze measurements of program/division/department/agency performance and efficiency. A stats system would be developed on Recovery.gov based on the idea of holding program/division/department/agency directors responsible for ARRA project results through a regular review of performance data. If any ARRA funded programs or services were not performing as expected, then strategies would then be developed to quickly correct any problems. Because a stats system relies on real-time access to operational level data, and resources to develop strategies to quickly correct problems, it requires an investment in technology and commitment from executives. Stats systems at times would be viewed as confrontational as program/division/department/agency directors would be "put on the spot" for poor performance. This however, is not their intent. The purpose of a stats program is to focus decision makers attention on operational level data to identify and correct unwanted trends before they become big problems. ARRA Stats systems would be most effective when operational reviews were connected with achievement of defined ARRA funded project goals and objectives. 

5.3.3 OPERATING POSITION • Operating results• Fund balances• Reserves• Liquidity Local and state governments must assess the impact of the Recovery Act investments on their respective operating results, fund balances, reserves, and liquidity. Local and state government financial policies and financial plans must run some scenarios on these measures from which to base decisions upon and to discuss with citizens, taxpayers, ratepayers and bondholders. Moody's, Standard and Poor's, and Fitch Financial utilize similar financial metrics to assess credit worthiness. If ARRA monies have a direct impact on a local or state government's credit worthiness, then why do we not model and report on it on Recovery.gov on a monthly basis? 

5.3.4 DEBT STRUCTURE • Pension obligations• Pension assets• Post employee benefits Local and state governments adherence to GASB Statement 50 that amended GASB Statements No. 25, Financial Reporting for Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Note Disclosures for Defined Contribution Plans, and No. 27, Accounting for Pensions by State and Local Governmental Employers, by requiring: Disclosure in the notes to the financial statements of pension plans and certain employer local and state governments of the current funded status of the plan--in other words, the degree to which the actuarial accrued liabilities for benefits are covered by assets that have been set aside to pay the benefits--as of the most recent actuarial valuation date. Local and state governments that use the aggregate actuarial cost method to disclose the funded status and present a multi-year schedule of funding progress using the entry age actuarial cost method as a surrogate; these governments previously were not required to provide this information. Disclosure by local and state governments participating in multi-employer cost-sharing pension plans of how the contractually required contribution rate is determined. The status of local and state governments to meet these obligations must be disclosed to citizens along with the fiscal impact on the cost of future government service. Citizens will probably ask whether the federal government is fully disclosing the future cost of federal pension liabilities on its financial statements. This is an issue that cannot be swept under the rug. 

5.3.5 CONDITION OF CAPITAL PLANT • Maintenance of effort• Capital outlay The useful life of capital assets needs to be carefully examined at the local, state and federal level. Citizens will want to know whether we are underfunding capital asset maintenance within our current operating budgets. Perhaps now is the time for local, state and federal governments to enhance the budget descriptions of capital asset maintenance that is funded in the operating budgets in terms of its expected impact on the capital assets useful life. As the commercial says, "you can pay me now or you can pay me later". It would be extremely is unfortunate if the bulk of these Recovery Act investments did not go for bringing lagging capital asset conditions to a locality or state or federal government's published asset condition standard. Does your government have capital asset condition standards in its annual capital and fixed asset inventory? If these tools were used and implemented in a standardized manner then it could be used to pull together the pertinent information from the local or state government's budgetary and financial reports, mix it with the appropriate economic and demographic data, and creates a series of local government financial indicators that, when plotted over a period of time, can be used to monitor changes in financial condition as a result of receiving Recovery Act money. Note that the financial indicators include such things as cash liquidity, level of business activities, changes in fund balance, and external revenue dependencies. This system can also assist the elected officials in assessing how the recovery act monies affect their long-range policy priorities and can provide a logical way of introducing long-range considerations into the annual budget process. Using technology for financial, performance and project reporting as well as audited financial statements utilizing XBRL on internet would create accountability. Mapping these projects on a Geographical Information System along with the project status would create millions of eyes on the prize. JUST DO IT I have listened to all of the "planning" and "integration" discussions about the implementation, reporting and monitoring of the ARRA from a conceptual level. I offer some implementation details at the logical level that would help the local, state and federal financial information systems experts create an "data architecture" at the physical level and fund the modification of existing financial and procurement systems to collect and report ARRA information through a Web 2.0 approach. If you have had the opportunity to listen to NPR "All Things Considered" program called REMAKING MICHIGAN, RETOOLING DETROIT, I think that you would see how utilizing my recommendations would help citizens monitor and track progress that the State of Michigan is undertaking to restructure its economic base and how Detroit is retooling its business base. For those of you who read the Comprehensive Annual Financial Reports (called CAFRs) of local and state governments, you know that CAFRs contain a section on the "Top Taxpayers" and the "Top Employers". If local and state governments were to report this information by NAICS codes (sectors) and compare these sections for the past 10 to 15 years, then it would indeed show how the economic sectors have been changing. here again, government has this information and must use it more strategically. What is the impact that these ARRA funded projects expected to have on the FY 2009 and FY 2010 Top Taxpayers" and the "Top Employers" of local and state governments that prepare CAFRs? Why re-invent the wheel? Make a decision on the tools, collaborate with professional organizations and financial/procurement public sector software publishers, automate the reporting, and accountability and transparency awaits. These are actions that Washington needs to lead, and for some aspects, invest in technology and enhanced reporting to make it accessible. It is that simple. "Just Do It".
 

 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recovery-gov-website-improvements-360-project-review
 
 
 Recovery.gov Website Improvements - "360 Project Review"
 
 The website should create an opportunity for public feedback - essentially a "360 review". The website could sort the projects by type, location, cost, and standard description. Users could then click on a particular project, answer a few standard survey questions, and provide comments. 
 
 This would allow OMB to review feedback from multiple sources which in turn would help pinpoint projects where issues of concern may exist. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/report-multiple-bottom-lines-take-a-page-from-the-business-world
 
 
 Report Multiple Bottom Lines - Take a page from the business world
 
 The citizen should not only be able to monitor the fiscal bottom line (where the money is going), but other bottom line impacts (e.g. number of jobs created, number of citizens positively impacted, demographics of those citizens). Forward thinking businesses already report their CSR (corporate social responsibility) metrics. There are data collection and reporting systems currently in production that demostrate how to collect information from mulitple organizations, validate and report against multiple bottom lines. An example is the Microfinance Information Exchange that leverages Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) to have institutions report both against both a financial and social bottom line. <a class="external-link" href="http://www.ubmatrix.com/casestudies/mix_page.htm">Read more here.</a> 
 
 Citizens should not only be able to see where the money is going, they should be able to understand the social impact of the money spent 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/citizen-groups
 
 
 citizen groups
 
 10 people citizen groups, all over the country (in each town for example) through internet, to get and discuss, explain, modifiy AS A GROUP the recovery data, and put them back as a collective idea within a few hours (french contributor) 
 
 transparency, independance, fast information return, democracy 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/the-users-perspective
 
 
 The Users' Perspective
 
 Make the front page clean and graphic, way too wordy right now ... your interative chart gets lost even tho it is on top 
 A map of the U.S. for the state information, individual logos and specific name for the departments and agencies 
 Front page link to the index 
 Employ "simple speak" ... my eyes gloss over right now 
 Open initial links in a new window so that <a href="http://www.recovery.gov">www.recovery.gov</a> does not get forever lost 
 Timeline means nothing to us as is 
 Use the old fashioned thermometer as a graphic indicating the fulfilling of the promise/deliverable/grants expended, et al ... we know it, are used to it and it is simple ... stop making things so complicated ... we will follow it deeper if we wish, through continued linkages 
 
 Government websites are just as confusing as the dogma put out by the agencies. End it here. THis is a dialog between the gov't and the citizens. Clean it up, simplify it, be clear and concise, speak graphically and punctuate with verbage as the exclamation point. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/build-an-approval-validated-system-for-data
 
 
 Build an Approval / Validated system for data
 
 As Government transparency matures a large majority of the information being shared will likely be "digital data", i.e. more then ust documents we will have facts &amp; figures, some automatically generated as well as "expert statements". 
 I'd like a system by which we could provide a tag to such data to help highlight it's "truthie-ness". 
 I'd like to know which experts may (dis)approve of a statement or legislation as well as have a sense of trust associated when I'm given a number. 
 As examples; 
 1) If someone issues a statement that "Solving &lt;X&gt; will cost $90 million" I'd like to know who agrees, and who disagrees and be able to find (directly from the data) the various opinion. 
 2) Or if I'm told the USPS saved $10 million in fuel costs by switching to a more optimized delivery system and cutting out Thursday deliveries I'd like to know if any experts have vouched for that number and what the margin for error is. 
 
 As policy and decisions will be increasingly decided based on data driven analysis and visualizations. It's critical that those numbers are not simply pulled from thin air and that we can discern the pedigree of such statments. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/build-an-approval-validated-system-for-data-1
 
 
 Build an Approval / Validated system for data
 
 
 We need a system of linking and commentary on statements and data. 
 For example if someone says "This will save us $10M" I'd like to know who agrees or disagrees and how they derived that number. 
 And if the USPS says they'll save $8M by utilizing more fuel efficient routes and not delivering mail on Tuesdays" then I want to know whether or not that's been checked by an independent 3rd party. 
 
 As more "data driven" decisions are made based on analytics and visualizations it's critical that we develop a "pedigrie" for this data so we can associate a level of trust, assurance and accountability for the actions they drive. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/treemap-for-exploration-of-spending
 
 
 Treemap for exploration of spending
 
 Treemaps offer a unique visualization for showing a comprehensive view of the Recovery spending while allowing for drill-down into the details. Here is an example that shows the Stimulus Bill composition alongside popularity of the components: http://stimulusbill.juiceanalytics.com/treemap 
 If this model was combined with views by agency and % disbursed, it could provide average visitors a way to navigate through all this data. 
 
 
 It is hard to get a full picture of the Recovery spending. Treemaps offer a perfect tool for sharing the breadth and depth of this data. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/why-is-this-a-org-site
 
 
 Why is this a .org site?
 
 Why are most of the comments from Industry? 
 When did we lose track of our mission? 
 Why is Security and Sensitive data no longer important? 
 Should we just turn over the keys? 
 Instead of looking for more ways to spend the Government monies. How about defining the requirements. What problem is this intended to solve? 
 Where are the digital elite citizens? 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/empower-an-organization-to-simplify-the-data-environment
 
 
 Empower AN Organization to simplify the data environment
 
 The key missing element is a Single Organization responsible for rationalizing and driving consistency in the mess of state, local, and federal government data systems affected by Recovery.gov. The business issue was locked-in back in the 1980s New Federalism, which firmly established the delivery channel whereby the Federal government got out of most direct service delivery. Since then, the feds have shifted to relying on state and local government as their delivery partner. Although the federal government has required bills be sent-in, with some level of reports and auditing, the systems used to create, recieve, and process the bills were never built to work together. This is what is inhibiting the accountability and transparency of the federal programs covered under the Recovery Act (ARRA). 
 Concepts such as Master Data Management (MDM) and Semantic Web being discussed here are very important for the success fo Recovery.gov. In essence, these are data architecture constructs that would let Recovery.gov use existing data sources, dramatically reducing the burden on government, universities, and others who must submit reports. For example, MDM would reduce data errors due to semantic issues and other inconsistencies in systems used by those having to submit reports. Semantic web concepts would reduce middleware and Business Intelligence, visualization, and other costs of acquiring and using the data. 
 However, deploying these concepts is not free, and a strong federal leadership focal point is required to deal with those would resist transparency by keeping data in customized formats. In addition, the federal government would have to figure out an effective deployment strategy, which would involve a snow-balling effect...perhaps by requiring modification to the standard federal receivables format (at least bill presentment), the performance/results report submitted with the bill (building on or simplifying the current earned value reqt), and accounts payable data string. This would save a lot of money all levels of govt are spending on administration and to comply with Recovery.gov reporting reqts. But, since the money is so dispersed, the value may only make sense when aggregated across the silos of government...which in itself requires a single point of leadership to make the case for change and lead the change. 
 I am proposing that the federal organization overseeing Recovery.gov shifting from a report receiver to a good management leader. 
 
 The vast majority of the concepts being discussed here on the National Dialogue assume that there is a single leader that can drive change. That's wrong, unless something changes. Recovery.gov is operating on a reporting structure that sits on top of non-transparent systems. Getting disparate systems to report consistently or putting on a filter that makes disparate data look alike is a bandaid approach to bigger problems (resistance to transparency and systems that were never built to communciate), and many bandaids recommended here may be the most expensive way for the government to proceed. If the government can get accountability and transparency for $787B, we can get it for the vast majority of spending. 
 Today, the leadership is only driving the reporting requirements. But, many entities fear transparency and others fear the cost and burden of reporting. This implies ARRA recipients can't afford to report well or may not want to report with the right data. As a result, getting good data is expensive and Recovery.gov even has envisioned a "Reconciliation Solution," which cannot be cheap and will generate controversial results. 
 Let's fix this at the root cause, by changing the focus of the feds and taking the time to do it right. If someone did the business case, i bet we'd see substantial savings as well as true transparency and accountability. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-existing-commercial-saas-enterprise-solutions-for-decentralized-model
 
 
 Use Existing Commercial SaaS Enterprise Solutions for Decentralized Model
 
 This morning I published a simple twitter post that circulated quickly. The post was inspired by a Washington Post article on the Johnstown Pa airport. According to the Post article, the airport, though slightly used, became one of the first recipients of stimulus funds and has now received over 200M of federal money over a period of 10 years.

The twitter entry clearly hit a nerve. What I said was:

"The Johnstown airport is a good example of why social media is so important to achieving transparency." I also said: "Spending intellectual capital simply to publish info is missing the whole point of transparency: better decisions."

Here is what I meant.

 Old World Transparency 

Under the Economic Recovery Act, the federal government, in Title XV requires every state to collect data on transparency projects, and to publish that data in a master portal - Recovery.gov. Presumably, state and local governments are going to spend many tens (perhaps hundreds) of millions of dollars to meet transparency requirements defined in this way as they collect and save data, build large data warehouses and schemas, and do everything that it takes to comply with such a massive data engineering challenge.

The Economic Recovery Act requirement is essentially an "Old World" view of transparency. We can publish contract information on projects under the banner of transparency to an extreme. We can even enable public comment on data collected. But what will be accomplished? And at what cost? What is novel, or new about this old world model?

The Economic Recovery Act essentially establishes requirements for government organizations in much the same way that Sarbanes Oxley did for businesses. The underlying intent, as in Sarbanes Oxley was a good one - namely that through publication, organizations have incentive to be compliant and accountable to their stakeholders. But publication standing alone misses the point.

Under an "Old World" transparency model, the government agency acts outside of the network publishing information from the outside in.

 New World Transparency. 

In contrast, in a "New World" transparency model, government agencies act "in network" providing information from within to all citizens and stakeholders and then enabling those stakeholders and citizens to discuss and exchange the information with ever evolving solution possibilities. The power of "in-network" models is exponential. There are many studies in commercial markets that conclude that consumers (citizens) are up to 9 times more likely to act on the advice and exchange of their peers.

So how does this apply to transparency for stimulus and the Economic Recovery Act? Here is how.

Transparency has many dimensions. In the case of the Johnstown airport, and transparency projects like it, let's say that all of the contract data is published. What is the consequence? The money has been allocated and spent. We might bring scrutiny after the fact. We might provide disincentives to future expenditures, though undoubtedly whoever is responsible for decision making was able to rationalize the expenditure.

Alternatively, what if social media were used to establish public views on alternative expenditures - perhaps in exactly the same area of Pennsylvania? If we said to the people of Pennsylvania - here is 2M or 200M of federal dollars, how would you spend it to create jobs in the region - are we confident that they would say "the Johnstown runway and airport"? Or might they say something else? Might we uncover alternative solution possibilities before the fact of expenditure so that choices are proactively, not reactively made? That is where social media can be helpful.

Social media can present alternatives on a local basis in a relatively short period of time. It can be used to gather ideas between and amongst alternatives. And it can be used to qualitatively, not only quantitatively, evaluate different ideas. In other words it can present decision makers with a clearer view of solution possibilities so that the "best" decision is made. This is no small deal.

In other words, transparency has another dimension. It isn't simply defined by telling citizens what you are going to do and how much you have spent after the fact. It is involving them before decisions are made and along the way. Transparency in this sense creates citizen ownership and true involvement - not just sending a comment along on a federal agency Web site.

 Dimensional Transparency is Critical to the Future of Government and Citizen Trust 

There could not be a more critical challenge than for government to get transparency "right". Think of the challenge this way. For every federal dollar that adds to the deficit and that does not improve productivity, our global competitive position is eroded in exactly the same way as if that dollar was spent in banking or financial bailouts, or any other expenditure that does not lead to production of goods and services.

Dollars wasted don't ultimately put more people to work. Every dollar of stimulus expenditure has to count. Dollars that do not add to productivity will cause inflation and a weakening in the global position of the US Dollar. So government stimulus expenditures have to be effective. We have to get the most out of every dollar.

In the case of Johnstown airport and many stimulus projects like it, will transparency accomplish its intended purpose? One scenario from a citizen perspective might be: "You had all of these transparency requirements, published contract information, and still wasted the money." The irony could be that narrowly defined transparency could actually lead to less not more citizen trust.

In contrast, if we broaden our view of transparency to promote true citizen inclusion through citizen networks established locally, on a decentralized basis, then citizens will become a part of establishing priorities, will take broader ownership of stimulus spending and the projects that it funds, and will be responsible for defining alternatives. Even if projects fail, or are sub-optimal, at least citizens will have had an opportunity for true inclusion. That is the type of behavior that will build trust and accountability.

How many more Washington Post/New York Times articles await us on stimulus funded projects that make little economic sense to the populous of citizens? Worse still, how many blog or SM exposes await? And won't those articles inevitably erode citizen trust in the face of transparency - and possibly create an even more dramatic crisis in citizen confidence?

Like many readers, my first reaction to the WP article was one of affirmation - that this is the way that the federal government often works. Further, stimulus funds are going to be spent just as all federal funds are spent - often without accountability and broader purpose.

That is why social media should be used now to provide decentralized involvement in state and local citizen networks. Social media and citizen networks will ultimately build the trust that transparency through publication under the Economic Recovery Act so desperately seeks.
 
 
 
 This idea is important because to be effective in achieving transparency, there must be citizen involvement in decentralized project based environments. Citizens are much more likely (by over 65%) to engage in state and local project involvement than in a federal portal based environment. 
 The Software as a Service solutions to support this are proven and in use today in both public and private sector environments. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recovery-gov-needs-a-development-blog-recovery-gov-as-perpetual-beta
 
 
 Recovery.gov needs a development blog; recovery.gov as perpetual beta
 
 People are hungry for information about recovery.gov. This initiative has attracted people from variety of interests. There's a lot of excitement around this project. 
 It would be great to have an ongoing development blog for Recovery.gov. It could be limited to the technical development or be expanded to include policy and guidance activities. 
 The initial implementation (september) and ongoing implementation should be considered and stamped a perpetual beta. Shiny "beta" badge optional. The public facing side of Recovery.gov can provide more "beta" experiments than the agency-reporting data side. 
 
 To carry on the perpetual beta concept with development of Recovery.gov. Recovery.gov is being seen as a government Web 2.0 project. 
 This dialogue opportunity is fantastic, but it has a time limit. A blog would continue the public engagement and discussion. 
 Glad to see the RSS feed is now available. I was considering screen scraping the site content to create a unofficial feed. No need now. :) 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-and-support-open-ict-standards
 
 
 Use and support Open ICT Standards 
 
 Check the W3C eGov or WAI activities, and promote the adoption of Web Standards that are free and open, and designed using a due process open to all. 
 
 
 
 Free and Open Standards brought us the Web and the Internet, and if we're happy with that, let's support the next phase, the Web of Data, based on open standards as well. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/toward-best-practices-innovation-an-emergent-learning-oppotunity
 
 
 Toward Best Practices &amp; Innovation: An Emergent Learning Oppotunity
 
 Create a showcase of great ARRA funding use ideas. This might include a designated space on the homepage with a single State-based program highlight linked to a subsection that catalogues great ideas, programs and use of funds that effect meaningful change, and which can be replicated in other regions. 
 
 While tracking how funds are used is a critical first step to ensuring transparency, knowing that the funds are being used efficiently and effectively defines accountability. Since States will be innovating programs and bringing new ideas to the table, it would be useful to encourage information sharing on all levels to facilitate change with actionable and operational best practices. This kind of information will make it easier for States and other stakeholders to find useful program and development information that can be applied to their own efforts in both the short term and long term. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/dot-highway-construction-traffic-impact-reporting
 
 
 DOT Highway Construction Traffic Impact Reporting
 
 Create a database of detailed highway construction projects to be updated daily by the contractor with more specific information on lane and exit closures and possible impact to traffic. 
 Provide web service / portal to search and retrieve the information for integration into existing public and private traffic reporting solutions. 
 
 Currently only very broad information is collected by the federal DOT. For example, I-95 will be under construction from July, 2008 to July 2011 between New Haven and Milford, CT. 
 The contractor doing the work knows which areas are going to be affected on a daily basis. A simple web interface to update this information so that specific lane closures and exit closures could be announced to provide more detailed impact on traffic. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/nationalizing-catastrophy-insurance
 
 
 Nationalizing Catastrophy Insurance
 
 Catastrophe Insurance should not be for profit. If we would make this very important issue not for profit and the money would keep accumulating as a nation, then there would be plenty of money when catastrophies strikes. The whole business of insurance is so complicated and extremely expensive because it is based solely on profits not taking care of the people affected by the catastrophies. It also would be alot more affordable this way. As it is not doled out every year as profits. Charging each high risk area more than a lower risk area. The excuses abound, hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, fires, earthquakes, blizzards, drought the list can go on. No one is really a lower risk, anything can happen and the insurance companies make way too much money on these things and it should end. 
 I have lived in Florida for 28 years, from 1983 to 1993 when hurricane Andrew hit for 10 years or more because I wasn't here, I'm sure it was much longer Insurance collected huge amounts of money and never had to pay claims, then after ANDREW hit they tripled the amount they collected again for another 10 years until another hurricane hit. State Farm just wants to collect money they have no interest in having to pay it out so they have decided to leave the home insurance business and stay with only the highy profitable car insurance industry. I think we should just boot them all. NOT FOR PROFIT and the country could collect interest on it's deposits. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Some things are just too important to take care of and making money shouldn't be the priorty. This applies also to Health care which I will start a whole new discussion about. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/push-versus-pull-for-oversight-of-funds
 
 
 Push versus Pull for oversight of funds
 
 Enable the oversight agencies and the public to "pull" data and information via a "cloud computing" paradigm. Through web services API standards all agencies would be able to populate the "cloud" with relative ease. The information in the cloud would then be available to anyone based upon their need and requirements. 
 
 The traditional method used to gather information for reporting purposes is a "push" method where agencies are required to provide data at certain times, in certain formats to create a centralized data repository. The problem is that these systems are extremely complex and expensive to build and maintain requiring standardization and centralization of systems and processes across an extremely varied set of agencies, missions and services. Therefore, it puts the government in a position to fail even before they begin. Its like asking 15 completely different commercial organizations from different industries to do the same thing - impossible. Utilizing the cloud computing method you are able to place information in a cloud from any source at any time through API interface standards thereby reducing the impact and cost to the government. Then the oversight agencies and public can "pull" data at any time making trasparency possible. The "pulling" method is faster, better and cheaper enabling the government to be in the business of oversight versus the business of data collection and management under the current more traditional, expensive and inefficient "push" method. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/online-modeling
 
 
 Online modeling
 
 Models provide an ideal means for encoding a wide range of individual theories on a problem. For the Recovery effort there are already a lot of ideas and policies for stimulating the economy and transforming agencies (energy, education, healthcare, etc). Simulation models will allow policy makers to formalize their theory, link it to data, and then forecast the expected effects. This will allow for a very objective way to determine which programs actually work and which do not.
 
 
Currently there is no true online modeling environment. At best there are some clients that allow you to create models offline and then publish an executable online (see an overly simplistic example on historic GDP <a class="external-link" href="http://feedbackgovernsdyanmics.blogspot.com/2009/04/very-simple-gdp-model.html">here</a>
 ). The problem with this however is that the most important part, the model structure, is then invisible and therefore not open to scrutiny and modification. 
 
 The Recovery provides a perfect opportunity to develop an online modeling tool that can be used by research communities in concert with policy makers to create simulation models exploring different problems and potential solutions. 
 
 There have been a lot of ideas on how to open source the data in the Recovery effort, but this is only the beginning (<a class="external-link" href="linked-open-data">Tim Berners-Lee's post</a> is a good example). In order to truly make sense of all this data, researchers and policy makers need a more robust means for formalizing theories and ideas. Visualization and analysis tools do help with communicating results, but they don't always capture the structure of the problem and proposed solutions. What is needed is a way to open source the theory . 
 Simulation models fill this gap by explicitly mapping out the causal structures thought to be creating a problem or providing a solution. The complex challenges posed in the Recovery effort can only be met using the science of systems to break down, model, and test the wide variety of ideas being proposed. 
 Models are also very good at both aggregating and disaggregating data. For example, the overall spending in the Recovery effort could be modeled, but then linked to disaggregated models of individual program areas. This would allow anyone from layman to experts to examine information that is appropriate to their interests. 
 The development of this tool will not only help with the Recovery effort, it will revolutionize the way complex problems are solved, ushering in a new era of scientifc rigor and responsibility. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/simply-your-formats-and-websites-for-people-and-organizations
 
 
 Simply your formats and websites for people and organizations
 
 Upon looking for information regarding grants, programs and information, I find that your sites are not user friendly. It takes several hours to find information about grants, and programs; jumping from one site to another and is very confusing and time spending. It was not that way before. 
 In addition, what happened to the Faith Based Community Organization Website? I belong to one of these organizations and now find that the useful page for programs and grants no longer exists, instead it goes directly to the Whitehouse. 
 Government, the President and Congressmen need to get out and see what it is really like in rural America, instead of visiting large towns and cities. I have a food bank and provide food to disadvantaged people that have no place to go, because they cannot afford transporation, do not have income, or fixed income and cannot get the services they need. Our food bank is basically falling down, but we continue to keep it running, we have no funds for our food bank and in addition other food banks in our area are also closing. What are these organizaitons suppose to do? What are these low-income people suppose to do? You really need to focus on Community Based organizations, such as ours and provide grants for additional food, health centers, fitness activities for children and adults, community kitchens, clothing banks and above all food banks. If these grants existed we could provide better services, extend our services and help people get off of the system. There is nothing for job training for organizations, there are for communities governments and schools. However, in the location I am in this is not a feasible opportunity due to land that is not available. I am at this time trying to get grants from foundations, and I am running into the problem of due to cut backs in the economy, funding is not available! 
 Therefore, you need to get out and see just what is happening in rural America and then start addressing the issues on the ARRA funding. People on unemployment and welfare, have not dropped as the statistics show, what is happening is that they are not elgible for welfare, food stamps or their unemployment benefits have ran out therefore they are not on the statistics. Our food bank is the only resource for these people to get help and we are looking at closing it in the next year, because the building is crumbling and unfit for food to be housed in it. 
 So make your websites, and information more readily, get information out to community organizations and go out and work in a food bank that is in a rural community, this will give you an idea of what we are truely up against. 
 
 
 Because it addresses the needs of the Rural American poor people and community organizations that have no funding to keep their progams going. In addition, it addresses the issues of websites and information no being user freindly. 
 Furthermore, it challenges congressmen to go out and work in Rural America's Food Banks and with their community organizaitons who provide services without funding to those in need. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/user-friendly-data-presentation-platform
 
 
 User-friendly Data Presentation Platform
 
 The way i envision recovery.gov to be, it needs to include a graphic view where the average person can click on the amount signed in the act ($787B). this should allow the user drill to the next level down (i.e infrastructure, tax cuts etc). the user should be able to drill down further and further to see how the money is distributed to the projects, states and communities in a sort of hierarchical structure. ideally, the lowest level should show (details on individual project, how much was allocated &amp; has been spent, how many jobs were created). all these numbers should roll-up to the top level to keep a counter so that any visitors to recovery.gov can see a rolling counter of jobs created, $$ spent, total number of projects funded/completed. 
 
 it helps to simplify the user view of recovery.gov ..... the current website is very nice, but somewhat "busy" ... not easy to find information. many people dont have an attention span long enough to read everything on the website to see the good stuff buried several layers down. the majority of visitors to the site come in to see where the money is being spent. it makes the data presentation more user friendly. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/widget-builder
 
 
 Widget Builder
 
 Most people will not go specifically to recovery.gov but want recovery information to appear where they live on the Internet (like Facebook, blogs, etc). 
 Recovery.gov should provide a widget builder that people can embed on their blogs and social network pages. This widget builder should be able to customize based on the various feeds (state/category/agency). 
 
 A low-cost way to repurpose Recovery.gov information and get greater reach for the content. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/on-going-collection-rating-and-response-to-citizens-questions
 
 
 On-going collection, rating, and response to citizen's questions
 
 Similar to how you are gathering feedback through this site, providing a forum for citizens to ask the questions they want answered with the data is key. The site *can't* be a "collect the questions once, define a set of reports, and never look back." Allow citizens (or non-citizens) to submit questions -- the two-part format of this forum would be a good basis (1. What do you want to know?, and 2. ) -- and then allow for the rating/promotion/demotion of the ideas by recovery.gov visitors. Then, have a team focussed on using the available data to answer the top questions in a clearly understandable way, meaning effectively visualized (separate idea) with direct access to the underlying data used to answer the question. 
 
 Different people/interest groups will have different questions they want answered. The site is not going to be able to answer all the questions, but finding the ones that have the broadest appeal will enable your staff to focus their resources. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/consolidate-all-projects-from-all-agencies-into-one-site
 
 
 Consolidate All Projects from All Agencies into One Site
 
 While recovery.gov has a list of all agencies and their respective web sites, it would be most efficient to have a central database and website for all construction work available from all agencies. Right now, fbo.gov is an excellent resource, but what about consolidating all TARP, stimulus, and budgetary spending construction jobs into one searchable engine? Sorting by state, county, and city would be most useful, and a clickable map would help less technical users find the available projects. 
 
 Generally, people working in the construction industry are not the most technically literate. In order to provide visibility at a useful level, the information must be easily accessed. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/transgender-healthcare-programs
 
 
 transgender healthcare programs
 
 i diane nero working real hard to restore my civil rights and discrimination act with transgender healthcare male to female attributes and emotional support by building a foundation sopport systems and working with the union in job placement , networks groups to improve one;s gender i am on fix-income of 698 i have not had a job since 2002 i want to be able to have access to my financil soluation and working with professional doctor and lawyers to determination in transgender healthcare programs 
 
 this is very important to to had dealing with sociaty and making my lifestyle complete male to female attributes and i want to be success in the human rights and working with the union and to protect my rights to beable to have access to my situation and crisis in living to better ingage oppertunity in working with council an professonal matter meeting with credit issues and development in one;s lifestyles i want beable to open model agencies in travel and i have documentation in financil and morel support in one-on-one evalaution with the the diagrams that i stated if have any question please call me at 804-386-6539 after 7pm thanks ms nero 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/loans-available-to-small-business
 
 
 Loans Available to Small Business
 
 Loans should be available to small businesses who have been in business for a year or two, and have little working capital. In order to expand and add employees, by submitting a proposed expansion plan, they can get a loan that they currently can't get because banks aren't loaning and the SBA requires collateral or a cosigner, neither of which most of these businesses has. Loans could be between $25,000 and $50,000 or less dependent on need. Interest should be low and repayment of at least ten years. 
 
 This idea is important because many small businesses who supply many of the low level blue collar jobs and even some low level white collar jobs, can no longer afford to operate, and will either close and lay off most employees or lay off the employees just to eke out a minimal living. It is the small businesses of the country that make it run efficiently and make products available to a vast majority of it's citizens. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-of-trns2022port-bams-dss-software-in-39-dots
 
 
 Use of Trns•port BAMS/DSS software in 39 DOTs
 
 The AASHTO Trns•port ® software system is a set of integrated components designed to meet highway/transportation agency pre-construction and construction contract information and management needs. Trns•port BAMS/DSS® is widely regarded as the premier software product for the analysis of transportation construction project data and is used in 38 states and Washington DC. BAMS/DSS provides a complete Trns•port historical database specifically designed to provide decision support in the areas of bid monitoring and evaluation, vendor (contractor, subcontractor, and DBE) and market analysis, and item price estimation. Other Trns•port systems monitor additional relevant road construction project activities, such as daily work, contractor payments, and subcontractor information. Data from the other Trns•port systems is archived into the BAMS/DSS historical data warehouse for ad hoc reporting and a wide variety of trend analyses. 
 Info Tech, Inc., the contractor for Trns•port, first developed BAMS/DSS in the early 1980s and has more than 30 years experience with fraud and competition data analysis. The software provides state DOTs with the data and tools to perform contract monitoring with analytical models that look for patterns suggestive of fraud and collusive behaviors, allowing them to address potential problems before they get out of control. Info Tech, Inc. also provides data analysis services and training to state DOTs to assist them with their fraud detection and prevention efforts. Road construction data analysis services that are relevant to ARRA projects vigilance include, but are not limited to, pre-award contract analysis and road construction major item cost tracking. Experience has shown that DOTs - with ongoing proactive contract monitoring procedures in place - typically receive more competition and lower prices. To date, Info Tech estimates that it has saved or recovered in excess of $1B for public agencies. 
 More information on AASHTO Trns•port software can be found at 
 <a href="http://www.aashtoware.org/?siteid=28&amp;pageid=73"> http://www.aashtoware.org/?siteid=28&amp;pageid=73 </a> 
 More information on Info Tech, Inc. can be found at <a href="http://www.infotechfl.com/"> http://www.infotechfl.com/ </a> 
 
 
 The Trns•port BAMS/DSS software system, historical data warehouse, and analytical procedures are already in use in 39 US Departments of Transportation. This tool can be used to monitor ARRA road construction projects with very little or no start-up costs. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/start-by-disclosing-state-and-local-plans
 
 
 Start by Disclosing State and Local Plans
 
 States and territories have submitted hundreds of initial applications for stimulus dollars, and more in-depth plans are due out soon. Effective spending begins with consistent monitoring, so I ask that the government disclose applications as soon as they are submitted and make plans them readily available on recovery.gov. 
 This could be achieved in a few simple steps: 
 Upload the state plans, as submitted, to recovery.gov within 24 hours of the time they are received by the relevant agencies Categorize the plans by sector, state, and program area (energy, education, etc). Allow for searchable browsing within the submitted plans on the recovery.gov website. 
 
 In all program areas, relevant agencies, non-governmental organizations, advocacy groups, and private companies can offer valuable expertise and guidance to state and local governments. To ensure the effective use of funds, relevant organizations and the general public should have access to the the program proposals. This will give them the opportunity to anticipate the challenges that local governments experience and guide them to successful programs and partnerships. 
 The Alliance to Save Energy and a broad based coalition of hundreds of energy efficiency and environmental organizations, public interest organizations, and advocacy groups have already requested the public disclosure of energy plans. Neither the Department of Energy nor the Whitehouse has honored this request thus far. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/take-this-opportunity-to-benefit-from-real-enterprise-architecture
 
 
 Take this opportunity to benefit from real enterprise architecture
 
 Emergencies can cause people and organizations to do extraordinary things, including taking on issues and opportunities that are the "right thing to do" but in normal times somehow never get done. We see this now in many areas or the President's program for national recovery, including economic stimulus, health care reform, and energy. The Administration should extend these calls for immediate action and change to processes around how government designs and acquires information technology solutions. Several important IT/IS management initiatives are directly applicable, including the discipline of using enterprise architecture to guide the full life cycle of acquiring solutions to meet business needs and required careful consideration of cost-effective alternatives to custom development, such as shared interagency solutions and their COTS/SOA-enabled/and SaaS brethern. Why not take this opportunity for OMB's CIO to apply this model using current federal enterprise architecture reference models to spending that is proposed on new information system solutions. This activity would pay for itself over time, and to address the current emergency and the need for immediate action, could be funded by recovery funds (including a small part of the planned budget for recovery.gov, if necessary) and staffed at least in part through details from participating agencies. 
 
 A large fraction of the $72+ billion now spent every year by federal agencies on information and technology management solutions is wasted on redundant, duplicative, and non-interoperable systems and solutions, and recovery-funded programs threaten to add many more billions to this waste. Serious application of real enterprise architecture by the new federal CIO could be done quickly and have an immediate effect in reducing this waste, to increase the benefit of emergency spending and bring lasting change to how the federal government manages the acquisition and use of expensive information and technology management solutions. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/if-you-really-want-transparency
 
 
 If you really want transparency...
 
 Project information should be by the location of the project. A statewide view of the projects including the jobs created, the number of family wage jobs, then go into the expenditures. The format needs to be user friendly - rather than a drill down of individual expenditures using a convoluted chart of accounts, there needs to be a link to outcomes. It doesn't matter how much money one contractor spent if there is no answer to "so what did I get for my money?" Look at what has already been done in leading state and local agencies. All of them have a visualization component so the viewer of the information can see where the project is and what is going on with it. Data needs to be provided through an RSS feed from the central database to ensure timely data. 
 
 There needs to be a central database to input the information with a visualization piece through a program like Xcelcius. This has already proven to work at the Washington State Transportation Improvement Board In fact, the agency has won a number of awards for the data visualization of project information. <a class="external-link" href="http://www.tib.wa.gov/performance/Dashboard/">http://www.tib.wa.gov/performance/Dashboard/</a> If you follow this link, click on the Project Information side menu, Small City maintenance. This gives the entire look of all small cities in the State of Washington and their pavement scores. Rather than running an expensive GIS project, TIB chose Google Maps to run the mapping project. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/professional-development-and-training-opportunities-in-emerging-tech
 
 
 Professional Development and Training Opportunities in Emerging Tech
 
 Provide grant and funding opportunities for professionals working in the IT field within academia to further their education and expand their knowledge of cutting edge technologies. 
 A more bottom-up approach needs to be made to help modernize and improve the information technologies being used in todays research colleges and universities. 
 In order to develop expertise and proficiency using emerging technologies, you need to have the resources to attend conferences, training and make use of other educational outreach opportunities. There are a myriad of IT technologies that are in the R&amp;D stages as well as RTM phases. There are few to no higher-ed courses that are teaching these newer technologies. Understandably, the faculty are teaching the concepts and the basics to the students. 
 To get familiar with these emerging technologies, an IT professional needs to attend conferences and interact with other industry professionals that are developing these technologies. Attending technology conferences, however, tends to be relatively expensive, with money being harder to find these days. 
 
 Many of the faculty and administrators consult with the IT professionals and developers in their institutions to solicit guidance and expertise regarding hardware and software technologies that are suitable for a given task or research project. The options that an IT professional can propose are directly related to their exposure and familiarity with a given technology. 
 As noted, attending professional developer or IT conferences and training is relatively expensive compared to attending a typical academic conference or workshop. The costs to attend leading edge technology training programs are also rather pricey. The problem is that grants and/or other funding opportunities do not seem to be available for these same IT professionals and developers. Have a look through Grants.gov and the like and the opportunities tend to be earmarked for students and faculty. 
 Other professionals have requirements for continued education as part of their professional development. Classes that they can take to remain up-to-date in their profession. Academic IT professionals and developers are no different - they should be given the resources and opportunities that they need to thrive and innovate. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/publish-and-hold-accountable-measurable-business-results
 
 
 Publish and hold accountable measurable business results 
 
 For each allocation of funds there should be a clear set of measurable business results that define success for the use of those funds. The results should be described in SMART terminology (specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, time-based) and should form the basis of the business case on why the allocation of funds is a good idea, 
 The expected results should be clearly agreed and published before any expenditure of funds, and tracked - this information should be made available to the public through recovery.gov 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/allowing-data-searches-similar-to-the-american-community-survey
 
 
 Allowing data searches similar to the American Community Survey
 
 It would be helpful if www.recovery.gov users could search by area to see how much money that area is receiving along with breakdowns of how that money is specifically being used. This could be done through a search tool similar to the one on the American Community Survey website. This would allow users to see dollar allocations for the nation, by state, by metropolitan statistical area, by county, or by city. 
 This is especially important because people need assistance in determining where all of the money is going at the local level. It would also allow community planners to examine what other regions are doing with stimulus dollars and to build off of their ideas for their own cities or counties. 
 
 This is about accessibility of information down to the smaller extensions of our government. To ensure transparency at all levels, and to improve community planning efforts, data on how stimulus dollars are being used should be available through a comprehensive search tool. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/business-information
 
 
 Business information!
 
 Businesses do not understand the flowdown of $'s. I've been with the Gov't for 43 yrs &amp; it's difficult for me. Develop a brief breakdown to at least give the firms a hint! 
 example: HUD - State Agency - County Agency - City Agency - Applicable program names, etc. (OPRs). 
 We're the NV PTAC funded by DLA. 
 Thanks for the opportunity to provide input. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/search-that-will-enable-the-national-dialogue
 
 
 Search that will enable the national dialogue.
 
 The idea is simple. Search. Search and you will find. Search and you will discover. Search makes information visual and actionable. Search is the enabler to make information transparent and accessible to all. Search that is contextually aware of the citizen, their constituency, their location, their social economic status -- what makes this person uniquely matter to our great nation -- is what is needed. When you are in an unlinked world of databases, reports, spreadsheets, and reams of unstructured content, you need the right search solution. <a class="external-link" href="http://www.microsoft.com/enterprisesearch/en/us/fast.aspx">FAST Search </a>has been enabling governments and commercial organizations make the most of their information for years - placing structure and order on your data to create information and intelligence. And now, as part of <a class="external-link" href="http://www.microsoft.com/enterprisesearch/en/us/why-enterprise-search.aspx">Microsoft</a>, we are opening a new chapter in <a class="external-link" href="http://www.microsoft.com/enterprisesearch/en/us/what-is-enterprise-search.aspx">enterprise search</a>. 
 This is not a new idea. Government agencies have been using search for years to deliver up to the minute intelligence, real time data analysis, situational awareness, and a host of other mission critical applications. Organizations have been using search to drive revenue by developing new commerce models, deliver engaging experiences with their customers, and connecting with their supply chains. Search has been the one true enabling technology to make sense of the massive data collection known as the World Wide Web. 
 Search allows organizations to create a single model of its data, leveraging existing metadata, as well as dynamically extracting and identifying entities and relationships from the broad context of the unstructured content. With virtually unlimited scalability, the unified search index creates a normalized representation of all of your data that acts as the middleware to a host of applications that are contextually aware of citizens, their locations, their interests, their needs, and can dynamically reflect the changing world around them. Finally, search provides a complete set of application programming interfaces (APIs) for content ingestion, dissemination, and retrieval. 
 Search is entering a new phase. Search is becoming pervasive. Search is no longer about a simple text box that returns a list of the most popular results. Search can now orchestrate a dynamic user experience by understanding the context of the user question, leveraging the available clues to the user's intent from social, application, and process interactions, and executing underlying contextual matching and data access algorithms capable of returning rich interface experiences in real time. Today, search incorporates not only broad intelligence about all forms of data and process inside the enterprise, but also continuous connection to the surrounding data and service environments of the Web, mobile, consumer entertainment, and governments. 
 
 
 The goal of Recovery.gov is to create a useful portal for citizens requires finding innovative ways to integrate, track, and display data from thousands of federal, state, and local entities. This is exactly what enterprise search is designed to do. In fact, search is the glue that will tie the magic of software with the power of internet services across a world of devices. The <a class="external-link" href="http://msstudios.vo.llnwd.net/o21/presspass/zune/AGlimpseAhead_Zune.wmv">future </a>will rely on a transparent set of services that will evoke transformational change to government and industry and it will all be driven by enterprise search. 
 This is important because we as a nation need a solution -- the right solution. One that will work and be sustainable for future generations. One that will put America back in the driver's seat of the world's economy. One that will truly make a difference. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/categorize-embedded-it-is-spending-by-fea-segments-to-increase-transparency
 
 
 Categorize embedded IT/IS spending by FEA segments to increase transparency
 
 All spending proposed on information and technology management solutions with recovery funds should be categorized according to segments of the OMB-managed federal enerprise architecture (FEA) and displayed with appropriate documentation of the expenditure through recovery.gov to motivate use of more cost-effective and efficient solutions through radically improved transparency and accountability with respect to this spending. Proposed spending should be reported in advance, to provide adequate opportunity for advance public comment, and it is likely that this could be accomplished relatively quickly and easily through the government's existing, GSA-managed FedBusOps (FBO) system. By providing early, timely and effective, pre-solicitation visibility of anticipated spending (in much the same way that agencies now use requests for information (RFI's) with the FBO system), the government would gain timely and cost-effective feedback from the public on proposed spending on specific solution alternatives. 
 
 Advance publication of proposed spending on information systems and technology solutions from extraordinary funding provided by the recovery program will increase transparency and accountability in an area where billions are currently being waster and better management is sorely needed. Categorization according to the FEA and improved documentation of proposed spending will increase transparency that is needed to improve the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of government spending. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/common-user-interface
 
 
 Common User Interface
 
 Addmittedly, I am not a technology expert. However, I think it is important that there is a common hub or screen where users interact with the data. Separating it all out by agency with different pages for each is inefficient and not engaging. Internet users need customizable template or interface with which they interact with Recovery data. 
 
 Engaging people from one pane, a single page, that is dynamic will make understanding the connections between the work beign done by this element of recovery and another. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/protecting-stimulus-funds-from-fraud-waste-and-abuse
 
 
 Protecting Stimulus Funds from Fraud, Waste and Abuse
 
 Implement an effective business process and proven solution to capture and analyze the allegations that are received across government agencies and the GAO FraudNet from private citizens, contractors, and government workers. 
 The type of service that is recommended requires both fraud and abuse (functional) and information technology (technical) expertise and a proven web-based solution to: 
 automate the collection of allegations from multiple hotline sources and formats into one fraud case management system; analyze the allegations to identify patterns and trends and to determine which cases need to be investigated through the use of sophisticated data mining and business intelligence tools; and manage not only the operational and technical processes, but the business processes to quickly assemble comprehensive information, review allegations and adjudicate cases. Allegations can be converted into cases manually or immediately upon entry through a rules-based engine. The workflow capabilities assign cases to investigators for follow-up, provide alerts and notifications and track the audit history. The entire investigative process can be automated and allows agencies to investigate, create, manage, track and collaborate on cases, including support for criminal, civil and administrative resolutions. Reporting and data matching within a single agency and/or across agencies to evaluate potential fraud and abuse is achieved by managing the data in one or multiple and interoperable data warehouses. 
 Alerts and notifications (as cited in other ideas) are required to identify early problems and non-obvious relationships and predictive analytics are needed to target and prevent potential fraud, waste and abuse. It is possible to include many of these requirements into a sophisticated, yet configurable fraud case management system without the delay in building a customized solution. 
 
 Given the unprecedented and enormous size of the Stimulus Funds, the fraud , waste and abusive schemes that will occur are inevitable and real and could potentially cost the federal government and the American people billions of dollars. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/business-reporting-and-due-diligence
 
 
 Business Reporting and Due Diligence
 
 Get the SBA to utilize the FundingRoadMap as the electronic link between the banks and the SBA. 
 
 Make the information presentation consistent, delivery quick and secure, eliminate hours of wasted time preparing narratives no credit officer or vc or angel investor really reads. It's not the great american novel..... 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/video-of-projects
 
 
 Video of Projects
 
 Video documentation of project spending, job creation/impacts. 
 
 This is our money and when you put a personal touch to it by showing the full impact, it makes it more acceptable. Show the "in progress" documentary type video of each project so the public is one click away from viewing exactly where the money is going. Show the entire process from filling out the request, to implementation of the project. Show the family impact and personal stories. The jobs it created or saved. 
 I have a project in the works that will do exactly this. I am awaiting acceptance of the idea. 
 The fastest way to recovery is through people feeling comfortable that progress is being made and can see it happening. They in turn will start spending again which is what we need to survive. 
 Thank you for the opportunity to share. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/jobs-1
 
 
 jobs
 
 WHERE IS THE CONSTRUCTION JOBS FOR THE UNION WORKERS WHO ARE IN THE UNION 
 
 BECAUSE THERE ARE AWHOLED LOT UNION WORKERS HAS BEEN LAID OFF AND LOSING THERE HOMES AND VEHICLES 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/leveraging-saas-solutions-for-data-collection
 
 
 Leveraging SaaS Solutions for Data Collection.
 
 DCI©(tm) leverages
the ArcGIS Server and ArcGIS Mobile products from ESRI and is ideal for organizations looking to take
advantage of online mapping, wireless data collection, and hosted QA/QC tools
for supporting a range of business processed that require accurate and fast
access to infrastructure maps in a highly-scalable hosted environment.
 
 
 
 An Enterprise needs to be able to: 
 Rapidly scale services Provide data collection tools for field teams. Provide a Cost-Effective , Project Based Solution. A solution that can be leveraged across the entire Enterprise. Ensure a Simple user experience and management process that requires, minimal training or specialist devices. 
The DCI©(tm) 
 would allow an organizations to rapidly scale and deploy data collection projects without having to invest in additional software &amp; hardware infrastructure. 
 
The DCI©(tm) 
 would provide organizations with an opportunity to "PILOT" the ArcGIS Server &amp; ArcGIS Mobile Environment before making an investment. 
 
Simply put, the DCI©(tm) 
is a great system for use in a wide range of scenarios where preparedness and cost-effectiveness are key
attributes.

 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/obama-adminstration-on-it
 
 
 Obama Adminstration on IT
 
 On the federal side there will be no change when The Obama administration just put in two outsourcing technical managers in the administration. 
 
 Now that is real Accountability and Transparency Mr. President Obama. Seeing our tax dollars go up in New York for a Photo shot. It is time for the White House and Government to set the Leadership example and park the planes, cars and helicopters. Start using Video conferencing, webcast, etc. 
 
 Money 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/expose-the-procedures-you-use-to-process-input-you-receive
 
 
 Expose the procedures you use to process input you receive.
 
 Recovery.gov is intended to facilitate two-way communication with the public. 
 
 Dissemination of information from the administration to the public is relatively straight forward -- there are many techniques for information retrieval, data mining and presentation. 
 
 However evaluating, screening and reducing masses of unstructured input from the public -- like this message -- is difficult at best. You will get many comments on this Web site -- what will you do with them? What procedures will you use to reduce and screen them? Who will read them? How will you utilize the ratings and topic tags? Which comments will be considered and which discarded? Etc.? 
 
I suggest that you to make this process transparent -- open your procedures for screening and using input from the public to independent researchers and journalists.
 
 
 
 The public will become jaded and cynical if they feel their submissions and comments are ignored. Exposing the procedures used to process them will encourage further citizen (and expert) participation. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/identity-management-allowing-cross-domain-access
 
 
 Identity Management Allowing Cross Domain Access
 
 
 
 
 
 Applied Identity's Identisphere line of identity aware network solutions are
purpose-built platforms that can be deployed within the internal network to
protect critical resources from unauthorized access. The Identisphere product
line contains all of the elements needed to enable the "identity aware"
network. 
 
 ID-Audit provides IT
 departments with a powerful window into their network that displays both
 real-time and historical user and resource activity. ID-Audit allows
 network and security administrators to visualize a baseline of events that
 can be reported on and used to satisfy internal and external audit
 requirements. For more information <a href="http://www.appliedidentity.com/products/id-audit">click here</a>. ID-Unify allows the
 management of user identities between disparate identity stores. This
 creates a virtual mapping and normalization of user information without duplication
 of identity objects and attributes and without requiring changes to
 existing identity stores. For more information<a href="http://www.appliedidentity.com/products/id-unify"> click here</a>. ID-Enforce is an identity
 aware, network enforcement solution that ties access policies with user
 network identity and network resources, for authorization and audit of
 network activities. ID-Enforce sits inline, close to the resources it
 protects which ensures that all users must pass through it in order to
 access data and applications. For more information<a href="http://www.appliedidentity.com/products/id-enforce"> click here</a>. ID-Mark In environments
 that require an increased level of accountability and non-repudiation of
 events, an optional ID-Mark(tm) driver can be installed on the client
 workstation to enhance security and enable the seamless collection of
 audit data. For more information <a href="http://www.appliedidentity.com/products/id-mark">click here</a>. 
 Key Differentiators 
 Applied
 Identity's overlay approach seamlessly integrates into customer's existing
 architecture Integrates
 into the existing I&amp;AM identity infrastructure Easier to
 deploy and manage than proprietary end-to-end solutions that require
 expensive infrastructure upgrades to implement 
 
 
 
 For over ten years, I've watched the government spend
millions of dollars on two things: 
identity management and cross domain access. I've seen prime contractors win contract
after contract, only to deliver nothing of real value. When I look at FedBizOpps, I see RFI after
RFI seeking information about protecting CUI and SBU information. It has always seemed that the problem was either
you protect it or share it, but not both; it was an all or nothing system. 
 Recently, we've been working on some military programs with
a company called Applied Identity, which has two pieces that have made life
much easier in regards to identity enforcement (who sees what) and cross domain
unification (who can get access to other sets of data they have a legitimate
need to see). 
 Programs like RAILHEAD and others that have failed to allow
its users to see and share data because of an inability to accurately enforce
identity management and connect the dots between disparate domains. In simplest terms, Applied Identity's
capability fixes those problems and at a fraction of the cost. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/retaining-jobs-in-public-sector-civil-service
 
 
 Retaining Jobs in Public Sector/Civil Service
 
 The recovery funds are to be utilized to Create/Retain Jobs with law enforcement being a top priority. Should we not apply these funds to local government entities that are facing budget shortfalls and planning RIF's of established employees? With specific skill sets to serve the public these employees are valuable assets. Yes... top management and those close to retirement should be analyzed for best results, but the rank and file should be able to keep their positions. 
 
 Retention of public sector positions should One of the top Priorities! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-a-widget
 
 
 Create a widget
 
 As a relationship marketing expert, I recommend creating a desktop and social media widget which features update headlines, schedules for press conferences and reports, and one-click access to in-depth information. 
 
 Pushing data to people is critical for keeping them engaged. Old methods (like e-mail) are falling out of favor because they are less convenient than new methods, such as a widget. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/good-luck
 
 
 Good luck!
 
 Without creating an overwhelming website that will only confuse us all I don't see how it can really be overseen in a clear and unbiased fashion. The agency that would have to be created to oversee it all is a problem in itself because it will eat up so much of the money that the programs that are being created will have less and less. It's still all waste and beuracy to me. It doesn't have a lor of positive effects where i am from which is the lowest employement rate in the nation...not the most affected by this crisis..I mean really the lowest in the nation by far always. I have little hope for any of this helping us. 
 
 The idea is important because we need to have smart people who have been doing this for a living for years volunteer to oversee the way money is spent. People with no agenda but the welfare of the country and are willing to give of themselves not take which is what I see happening. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/full-disclousure-of-proposed-legislation
 
 
 Full disclousure of proposed legislation
 
 1. How about posting each legislative bill rewrite giving the people the opportunity to voice our opinions and ideas. Posting bills after they have passed through Congress but before Obama signs them into law does absolutely nothing for "we the people." And you all do not do this anyway. 
 2. It should be a law that every bill is presented and debate on C-Span. But, of course, you all will not do that either. 
 3. And here is my best idea - to Congress I suggest that you all read the freaking bills before you vote on them. You can talk about politicial theory until your ass is blue, but if you do not know what you have voted on, well, tyranny gains a foothold or chaos becomes the order of the day. 
 
 It would be nice if you all knew what the damned bills said. Why is that an important idea? Really. You can't figure that one out. What a disappointment you all are. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recovery-mashups-for-citizens-and-states
 
 
 Recovery mashups for citizens and states
 
 Create a catalog and platform for mashups that citizens, state governments could access to see available funding, see future funding, and make it interact with web or personal information that helps them make it pertinent to their business goals. 
 It would include a 
 - Mashup Library (of feeds, pre-built mashup pages, and widgets) 
 - Environment for citizens or states to create mashup pages and create feeds from their own data to "mash" it with federal government data. Citizens could then create their own mashups and put them in catalog to be shared so others with similar needs could use them. 
 To be directly useful for citizens - the solution should let people put this in context of their own personal needs - therefore the ability to remix personal, web, and government data is critical. Broad support for standards beyond just RSS and ATOM but also extending to areas like XBRL is critical. 
 
 
 By creating a community environment for how people use this data -
better oversight and transparency both for citizens and for the federal
government is possible - with information on which feeds and mashups
are being used most. With the ability to rate, tag, and comment on feeds, government would get optimal feedback and insight on the information from users. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/reducing-infrastructure-waste-one-size-fits-all-wont-work
 
 
 Reducing Infrastructure Waste - One size fits all won't work
 
 The data necessary to measure the effectiveness of construction-related spending on transportation, infrastructure, new buildings, renovations and energy retrofit programs are very different than the data required to measure the effectiveness of other stimulus-related programs like COBRA supplements or job training programs. A "one size fits all" approach to tracking ARRA spending will fall short of expectations. With the bulk of ARRA funds directed at construction-related programs, this area represents the highest risk for waste, fraud and abuse or the greatest opportunity for a return on investment. 
 
 Standardizing reporting requirements for construction-related spending will enable governments to rapidly identify projects that are at risk for waste, fraud or abuse and ensure corrective action is taken. As a first phase, this can be done relatively rapidly, low cost/low tech, and does not have to be nor should be burdensome to the industry. 
 
 Construction companies already collect key data points using commercial-off-the-shelf systems as part of managing projects whether they are highways, roads, bridges or buildings. Key data points, when viewed individually or in aggregate form, can help the government rapidly identify red flags that indicate a project is at risk, mitigate issues before they become problems, and identify best practices that should be shared. 
 
 Several effective commercial, off-the-shelf systems also exist for organizing, analyzing and visualizing this data which minimizes the need for customization. A well considered, scalable solution can also be repurposed as a standard reporting tool across agencies for future construction spending - stretching taxpayer dollars even further. 
 
 Developing technology requirements for internal RAAT board purposes and external recovery.gov transparency requirements requires further consideration. How, whether or not, and when data are shared with the public presents opportunities as well as risks. While transparency is a worthy and achievable goal, there is a real risk that citizen, media and other analysts lacking domain expertise may draw inaccurate conclusions about data. This in turn could create policy, privacy, administrative and legal issues with the potential to undermine the administration's goals for recovery.gov. The CompStat model Mr. Devaney favors in fact, includes both public and "behind the wall" components for these very reasons. 
 
 Finally, 3D, data-rich, parametric technology known as "Building Information Modeling" (BIM) and related technologies like clash detection are rapidly gaining traction in the construction industry. When 3D technologies are combined with work process changes, they deliver better quality projects, up to 15 percent ahead of schedule with cost savings of up to 20 percent. 
 
 The GSA, Army Corps of Engineers, Department of State and Veterans Affairs all now require BIM for larger projects and adoption rates are beginning to increase at the local and state level - particularly among transportation agencies. When you consider that 10-20 percent of the budget for most transportation projects in the United States is dedicated to rework - correcting mistakes or addressing unforeseen issues that 2D technologies can't catch, - encouraging adoption of 3D technologies provided that data collection standards are developed in tandem would help further stretch taxpayer dollars and drastically reduce waste. 
 
 Construction-related spending represents the largest share of ARRA funding, the greatest risk for waste and the greatest opportunity for ROI. Technologies used by the industry today if combined with government standards can help the government maximize ROI, transparency and accountability. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/add-geographic-and-semantic-dimensions-to-existing-data-with-georss-atom
 
 
 Add geographic and semantic dimensions to existing data with GeoRSS / Atom
 
 Providing dimensional attributes to existing information and information systems has usually been a slow and heavy-weight process, especially for multiple dimensions such as space and time. The Atom Web Feed information format, combined with GeoRSS geoenabling tags and Web linking technologies, provides a lightweight, rapid, and agile means of adding such dimensions and achieving the visual-analytical insights they can provide. 
 While these tools are typically used for geo-enabling, or adding geographic context to information, the GML version of GeoRSS also allows arbitrary specification of coordinate reference systems. This means that GeoRSS / Atom can as well define attributes representing multiple semantic dimensions (cost, performance, equitability, demographics, etc.) useful for visualizing and working with government data. Call it geography plus. 
 
 
 It is too often the case that ideas for understanding information in new ways founder on the inability or slowness of existing information systems to accommodate them. GeoRSS + Atom offers an opportunity to rapidly analyze and visualize large amounts of information on government activities and effectiveness without first having to reengineer the information systems themselves. The necessary attributes are developed in form of external tags, essentially reinventing information, in a more useful form, on the fly. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/integrating-medicare-medicaid
 
 
 Integrating Medicare/Medicaid
 
 I would like to see Medicare &amp; Medicaid inegrating operations where someone can retreive records and see their information in a centralized location. The Dept. of Education uses somewhat of the same technology when students file their FAFSA. They require a PIN for more then one application. I have the ability to create a program similar to this that can be implented 
 
 This could allow for more ease for people who want to save time and not call multiple people. This could be "green" because it would reduce the paper required to file certain documents. As the "baby boomers" start to retire we will actually start spending more money to assist those people who need to apply for benefits. If we can start this soon we can start saving money. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/gis
 
 
 GIS
 
 Please enable the use of standardized GIS tools on Recovery.gov. 
 
 It is important to be able to visualize where the ARRA funds are being invested within specific regions and communities ... ie, geographically. This provides one of the most effective and efficient means for analyzing and sharing analysis about funding expenditures and resulting investments as they specifically impact a given geographical area (State, region, city, community, etc.). Thank you. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/help-homeowners
 
 
 Help Homeowners
 
 I earn 120000 a year as and my husband earns about that too. I have 2 kids in college (we are paying out of state tuition to 2 big ten schools through cash and loans) and a mortgage that is 2 months past due. Here's an idea-give hardworking Americans--no matter their income a check for $4000. I bet it would help a lot of people right now. We don't have time for "generating" ideas. Do something. 
 
 We need help now. Tried HUD and HUD counselors--all lines are either busy or mailbox full. For over a month. You guessed it. Do something now. Put the restructuing applications on line for God's sake 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-social-networking-to-broadcast-spending
 
 
 Use social networking to broadcast spending
 
 Twitter, Facebook and other social networking services can be used to share when recocovery funds are spent and returned. 
 
 Communication is the number 1 problem facing any organization. With improved communication comes the potential for improved action. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/government-employee-fraud-training
 
 
 Government Employee Fraud Training
 
 Government employee training in the red flags of fraud, abuse, information security and cyber-crime is critical to the effectiveness of whistle-blowing. Implement a government-wide on-line <a class="external-link" href="http://www.fraudaware.com">fraud awareness training program</a> to bring all employees "up to speed" on the many types of fraud that can rob taxpayers of their hard-earned money. 
 
 With hundreds of billions of borrowed taxpayer dollars being deployed to stave off auto industry bankruptcies and financial system collapse, the opportunities for federal employees and outside contractors to defraud the government will proliferate. Government employees are the "eyes and ears" of the Administration in ensuring that taxpayer dollars are spent appropriately and are not misappropriated. Their fraud awareness is essential 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/take-a-data-gov-approach-to-recovery-gov-using-web-2-0-web-3-0-techniques
 
 
 Take a data.gov approach to recovery.gov using Web 2.0 &amp; Web 3.0 techniques
 
 
 
 Web 2.0 in this sense means using XML to expose data structures, file formats, and services such as feeds. Web 3.0 means going further to expose and link the concepts and relationships found in data structures, file formats, documents, and web pages using semantic web and natural language technologies. 
 RECOVERY.GOV 
 Tracking, making sense, and assessing the stimulus program requires other kinds of data that provided today in recovery.gov. 
 The Obama administration values openness, transparency, collaboration, and connected governance. This is a big topic, especially given the scale of the Federal government (the scope of policy, information, and services that it deals with) and the number of individual citizens, media and social media, private companies, non-profit organizations, localities, states and regional organizations involved in one way or another with the stimulus program. 
 The Recovery.gov site is intended to enable people (citizens, investigative journalists, interest groups, government employees, … anyone) to find out how recovery funds are being spent and what we are getting for their money. Today, information being reported by agencies is limited. It encompasses the program areas authorized, and the funds obligated by the agency. But, not how the money is being used, and what is being accomplished with the funds. 
 So, this is not enough information to enable us to know whether any part of the stimulus program is working. We need to link obligation data from agencies with other sources that will enable us to track who is actually spending the money, where they are spending it, what they are spending it on, how they are spending it, and most importantly, what measurable results we are able to see coming from the monies spent. Where does this data come from? Some will come from Recovery.gov, but much more will come from sources outside of the recovery.gov spreadsheets. So, we need ways to connect information from disparate sources together, if we are going to follow the money from authorized program to use of funds to reported result. 
 Also, to investigate and analyze recovery initiatives, we need data that allows citizens to go deeper than mere surface reports. Creating 200 jobs in a town of 100 people would be suspicious. Creating 200 jobs in a locality that needs 2 million would be insignificant, hence a failure. We need to see recovery programs, spending, and accomplishments in the context of local statistical data and demographics. Sources of local information will be important in assessing the performance of specific projects. Data that enables citizens to gauge whether funds are being wasted or used fraudulently will come from varied public and private sources, e.g., internet social media, news feeds. We need transparency all the way into each specific project, and across its life cycle. 
 The idea is to take a "data.gov approach to recovery.gov" and to implement it using Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 techniques. Web 2.0 in this sense means using XML to expose data structures, file formats, and services such as feeds. Web 3.0 means going further to expose and link the concepts and relationships found in data structures, file formats, documents, and web pages using semantic web and natural language technologies. 
 For additional background on the role of cloud computing, web 2.0 and web 2.0 semantic technologies in implementing Obama administration themes of transparent, open, and collaborative e-governance, see the following presentation: 
 DATA.GOV 
 The Data.gov site is intended to provide a one-stop location where citizens (and their machines) can gain access to public information in a usable form. For data.gov to function, data providers need to expose five key categories on information that make transparency and accessibility operational for both people and machines, namely: 
 1 data set -- can be uploaded or remote 
 2 tagging or metadata about the data giving the structure of the data, provenance, etc. 
 3 definitions of what this metadata means (concepts, relationships, assertions, etc.), also "domain knowledge" explaining how to interpret it. 
 4 API or web services method of accessing the data, preferably REST-ful 
 5 URL where the data can be accessed. 
 The data for data.gov is to be selected and provided by all 25 agencies and 125 programs. The basic idea, in its simplest form, is to expose tables of information using XLM and provisioning data sets to the public using RSS feeds. The back-end concept is under discussion. One view is that agencies should expose data in some standard format that would be ported to some form of data.gov warehouse where it is made available through services. Another concept is that agencies should select from data they already make available on their websites, and provide a web services interface to enable data.gov to crawl the site and harvest the information needed. Trade-offs either way. Personally, I favor making fewer demands on agencies and handling conversion and interpretation issues as part of data.gov's value add. 
 Metadata, Tags &amp; Semantics. 
 To create mash-ups through data.gov or any aggregation vehicle, we have to know something about the data structure and what the data names (or column headings, or stubs, etc.) mean. For example, to answer a recovery.gov query I may need two or more spread sheets containing different information from different sources. I want to build a composite that combines some information from each of them. Sure, I can always rebuild the spreadsheet by hand using Excel. Hand-building is tedious because excel knows nothing about what any of the column heads mean. But, what if I could expose the structure of the spreadsheet so that the computer software could interpret that the column heading was the name of a property, and the cells beneath were instances of this, etc. Then, assuming I've been careful about how I named columns etc. I'd have a semi-automated way to build composite spreadsheets. That's what semantic web technologies give me. 
 Returning to recovery.gov, it gets more complicated if I want to combine (in some way) tables created by different people at different times using different data definitions. Even more complex if I want to map and link content from different spreadsheets, files, documents, web pages, etc. together. In the past we've always done this mapping one-off, by hand, with the results embedded in a particular solutions and not readily re-usable. 
 To map or mash-up different data sources and services, I have a meta data problem to resolve. What did person X mean by data field Y? Is the value presented in spreadsheet #1, for example a measurement of something over some time period, computed in a way that is compatible with other values that are presented in spreadsheet #2? Also, what do I know about the provenance and quality or integrity of the data in either table? When people resolve these questions, they draw on additional information about the data, as well as some knowledge about the domain in which the data is used. Typically, we find definitions written out in documents or on web pages, or we call someone who knows what the data names and data structures mean. 
 What if we would like to have an automated or semi-automated way to speed up and simplify the process of combining or mashing-up data? Then, the computer software needs to access and interpret more information than just the data set plus the data names. That is, if we want the computer to be able to help us to interpret, align, and link information from different sources, then we need to express the semantics of this metadata in a way that is machine computable. 
 What about natural language, and content structures other than tables? In addition, programs that extract information and concepts from natural language (or other sources) can apply the RSS strategy to communicate concepts and instances. This assumes that the classes of information being communicated are known, or otherwise discoverable, by the entity receiving the RSS feed. Typically, the number of classes is restricted, for example, to people, places, organizations, events. Also, when relationships are extracted, then the categories of these are restricted. 
 Linked Data 
 Linked data is powerful idea that has gained a growing following. Linked data calls for expressing structures, tags, and metadata as RDFa / xhtml, which provides a pretty robust way move the metadata around. Semantic web technologies provide a standard way to express both the data (or document, or page) and the meta information about the concepts and relationships of the data set, which can then be processed and transformed externally in various ways not only to change formatting, but also to map, align and harmonize alternative meanings of terms. 
 RSS feeds can communicate the structure of information, together with the content or instances of it. Typically this is applied to tables of data, forms, and simple document structures. Conceivably, it could be extended to schemas of graphics as well. It is the responsibility of the recipient of the RSS feed to know what the tags and structure of information mean. 
 A precursor of current thinking about data.gov was a program that the DC government established to provide RSS feeds for a number of data sets that could be used to create mash-ups and composite services. There was even a contest for putting together interesting mash-ups, widgets etc. that produced a number of cool services, and at zero cost to the government. The data.gov initiative will likely feature contests. 
 Semantic publishing. 
 Semantic publishing means sharing both the human readable, and the machine interpretable forms of information. In addition to tables of structured data, present the data structure and data element definitions and metadata in both human and machine-readable forms. Key ideas here include: 
 · First of all, the concepts of "public information" cover a lot more kinds of content than structured data tables, for example, all of the human-readable content published through government web sites, document collections, published reports, and much, much more. 
 · Second, the "publishing" concept carries with it the implication that this body of information has been subject to editing for understanding by people as well some "quality standard" of consistency, accuracy, and credibility. 
 · Third, the "semantic" aspect of the publishing means that all associated contents -- text, tables, graphics, images, etc. -- come with their structure and metadata expressed digitally (using semantic web, ontology, or other standard) so that any content in the publication can be machine processed as well as read by humans. 
 · Fourth, important government data aggregations and document collections already exist that combine multiple sources, have well formulated methodologies, have checked their facts, are well curated, and supported etc. These make logical building blocks for open public information that is trustworthy, accessible by concepts, and accessible in an internet friendly way. 
While it is always a good idea to start simply and get some early successes, it is also important to look ahead so as not to get boxed in. There is plenty of value from exposing the structure of tables together with the data they contain using RSS. But, this approach will encounter limitations as the data.gov site scales to more and data sets from more sources, as well as sources of higher knowledge content, etc. For data.gov to succeed, we will need to share knowledge about the data and domain in forms that both humans and machines can interpret. This will include incorporating terminology references and techniques for disambiguating the senses of natural language used to identify and define data concepts, provenance, and trust. This requires a form of syndication that is inclusive of ontology (definitions) and natural language understanding.
 
 Meeting the goals of recovery.gov requires methods that accommodate more data formats, sources, concepts and relationships than will be expressed in spreadsheets posted by agencies. The challenge is to make it easier for citizens, journalists, public interest organizations, government personnel and others to find, connect, analyze, the data and sources needed and present results in ways that communicate effectively. This means providing sharable means to expose the structure, concepts and data from many sources. For tables of information and structured forms, etc. this is doable today with either XML or semantic web technologies. However, as the numbers of data sets grows, the complexity of the information represented increases, and (in some cases) the structure of this information evolves, then we need to adopt semantic technology based approaches that can handle the scale, and simplify the combining of information. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-in-common-formats
 
 
 Data-in-common-formats
 
 Use the DUNS numbering. 
 
 Having had a good deal of experience working with D&amp;B both while in government as well as out of government, I would clarify one point. While the DUNS number is used as the unique identifier for entities receiving grants, contracts, etc., to the best of my knowledge, it is made available publicly in government systems and doesn't present obstacles to working with the data. On the contrary, having the DUNS number as an identifier on the records themselves ensures you are looking at the same business although it may go by many names across the government; it gets the government to a single view of its relationships with a given business (contracts, grants, and loans). The added benefit being that with a DUNS Number tagged to a business, there is lots of government data, and data at D&amp;B, that can be added on an as needed basis to meet developing requirements. 
 Kris Marcy, former senior executive, now retired and consulting. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/health-care-reform
 
 
 Health Care Reform
 
 Single Payer Health care System is THE ONLY way to go. 
 
 They should pass single payer. Everybody in. Nobody out. For prevention and treatment. For free choice of doctors and hospitals. No more premiums, deductibles, exclusions, co-pays, in-network, out-of-network rigamarole. No more family medical bankruptcies. No more pay or die. No more pay or become sicker. Single payer is the only system that will work. It's the most efficient. Single payer will cut out literally hundreds of billions in administrative fat, billing fraud and unconscionable profits. These savings will be used instead to insure the 50 million uninsured and the millions more underinsured. This will save lives. Starting with the more than 21,000 Americans who die every year from lack of health insurance. According to recent polls, the majority of the American people want single payer. So do the majority of doctors, nurses, and health economists. SO, Why the Obama administration is not considering it? 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/social-search-on-recovery.gov
 
 
 Social Search on Recovery.gov
 
 Recovery.gov should provide social searching tools for effective review and analysis by an average citizen user. Searchers on Recovery.gov will expect the ability to use social search tools that enable the storage of previous searches as datasets to be recalled, analyzed, tagged, and compared later. They will anticipate the ability to share the datasets they build on public facing websites and blogs, and even on popular social networking tools like Facebook and Twitter that are quickly becoming a primary source of information for many citizens. 
 
 Search is no longer simply the calling of a set of information with a single keyword; it is dynamic and increasingly social and should remain so in order to be effective for users. In order to serve citizens effectively, Recovery.gov must utilize social search technologies, not only because they are expected by many users, but because they expose the inherent value of collective knowledge that otherwise would be lost. Social search will make Recovery.gov a platform for collective monitoring of the stimulus plan. It will be a conversation among citizens and between citizens and government rather than a static archive of data to be viewed by an individual in a vacuum. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/semi-anual-follow-up-dialogues
 
 
 Semi anual follow up dialogues
 
 Let's follow trough with the ideas proposed and discuss changes, what worked and what did not work. Revisit ideas, merge ideas or get new ideas. 
 
 Constant improvement is key to do a good job in the recovery effort. People will have more ideas after this dialog ends. So we should have more opportunities to hear new opinions. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-analysis
 
 
 data analysis.
 
 Idea- to examine what information was used by rumsfeld, cheeney and others in the basement of the pentagon to fabricate a fake war that killed two of my freind's friends. 
 
 because these multi-billion dollar war profiteers are actively working to ruin this country in order to employ their private contractors into as many facets of our governmental agencies as possilbe. Because Bush Cheney inc. is a criminal front group that needs prosecution- that is why this idea is important. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/share-comments-on-specific-items-on-public-social-media-sites
 
 
 Share comments on specific items on public social media sites.
 
 Allow social bookmarking, facebook friends connect/story publish and other social sharing options for the public highlight expenditures which they think will be relevant to others as well as share a comment on the expenditure. 
 
 A public dialogue needs to extend to the public square. The digital public square is the space on social networking and bookmarking platforms and websites. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/a-common-mans-glance-at-what-these-recovery-measures-mean-to-me
 
 
 A common mans glance at what these recovery measures mean to me
 
 In a world where large numbers are lost on the common man , a breakdown and visual/ graphic review of what all these dollars amount to for the average "Joe Blow" citizen becomes paramount. It is said the journey of a thousand miles begins with but one foot step. Well the revitalization of our economy starts with the 1st dollar for Mr. and Mrs. American. It is the reverse theory of the can't see the forest for the trees. The problem is so large that many citizens are overwhelmed by the numbers. We talk of visibility and open accountability but if no one can see beyond the complexity then the point , hope and aspiration are all lost. 
 Correlation to one person gives empathetic hope to us all. We as collective social animals need to see the fruits of the labor expounded upon another of our kind. I may not be the one receiving the rewards of the individual gain via the stimulus money but I need to hear the stories of those who do ..or like me who will. 
 If charity really begins at home then let's start in the family nucleus. Let's virtually hear and see the impact on our individual selves. Let's hear and publish the gripping stories of how the little lady in Virginia was saved from being put out of her family home of six generations of hard working Americans. 
 In the minority communities "economic stimulus" has been but a faint toll of a distant bell that has always been just a promise away. Well now is the time to let economic freedoms (case by case) ring. Individualism serves as a great light upon a hill beckoning for the huddled masses to march forward and come forth into the light of anticipated renewal. The plight that grips my fellowman must be exposed and then corrected to bring about hope. 
 My point beyond this is that in this state of economy with its massive negative numbers , the answer is sometimes as simple as 1 + 1 equals 2. The key is the "+" /plus ...it implies the positive to the situation verses the indignation and humiliation of the negative counter balance in the whole equation. 16 trillion is a number I will never fathom but I am more than willing to see or hear about my neighbor who got an extra $30 dollars from the office of Senior Citizens to buy fruit and vegetables for their families. 
 Let's simplify and make it real for the US public....at some point we will realize its not a bailout from the government but a suggestion to reach into your own pockets and "reach one to teach one" that I am my brothers keeper and I need to hear and see what's going on with him on a single level before I can comprehend his connected and complicated circumstances. I need to see the statistics on the ONE ! 
 
 
 
 The needs of the one sometimes out weights the needs of the many. It is important to see the facts and the figures but it is even more important to see the power in the one. The scriptures says "and a child shall lead them" ....because it is in the simplistic and honest voice of a child we hear reason....and gain understanding ! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/want-real-change-ask4-it
 
 
 Want real CHANGE - "ASK4" it
 
 Provide Structured Inquiry to Equitably Represent Insights 
 Enable Root Cause Analysis to Uncover Sustainable Options 
 Publish Responsibility/Track Progress - for Accountability 
 Equitably Reward Exemplary Contribution and Innovation 
 To know WHERE WE: WERE? - ARE NOW?- ARE GOING? 
 Concept: Single interface/platform that serves as: 
 Online Process Improvement 'engine' to translate casual conversation into consensus and opportunity Online Clearinghouse of those Issues/their solutions: (only for pending/ACTIVE legislation/Committees, etc) 
 USERS: Use multi-factor authentication (require combined minimum of two/more agency-issued ID serial numbers) for all online posting/interaction or 'official' activities like referendum voting - by validated US citizens ONLY. (Any larger perspectives are represented by those individuals.) 
 INTERFACE: Graphic Interface is Diagram that presents the Flow/serves as buttons to drill to more detail; Identifies those responsible/contact info; Solicits/collects public Insight/posts their comments; Represents the Status/nature/due date of options being considered; tracks all actions online for progress/voter feedback, etc. 
 TRANSPARENCY: Divide pending legislation into subject matter sections to flag "off-topic riders" for LINE ITEM VOTE; and Reference final actions or votes taken (may become "the next issue"/can be revisited/improved, etc.). 
 
 ACCOUNTABILITY: Require online voter referendum for any conflict of interest/exclusivity/direct benefit to members of Congress (or Committee Members, etc.) - or to call for (or against) Congressional Hearings, Discipline, Recalls, etc. 
 Publish LINE ITEM voting record (ACCOUNTABILITY) Retain the 'history file' of all related information for reposting online access for subsequent reconsideration.

 PROCESS IMPROVEMENT: == (see platform concept here) 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://u-ask4-it.collectivex.com/"></a> 
 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://u-ask4-it.collectivex.com/">U-ASK4-IT</a> <a class="external-link" href="http://unettednations.wordpress.com/2009/02/25/change-its-lil-bits-of-progress/">CHANGE ITs</a> and <a class="external-link" href="http://unettednations.wordpress.com/ask4_is/">ASK4 is</a> 
 
 REWARDS: For innovators, this approach can identify new products and services that can bolster a recovering economy. 
 
 For every citizen that cooperates, it can be the freedom to create opportunity and share our improved relationships: 
 
 person-to-person, community-to-community, and state-to-state, or even globally. 
 

 
 For those currently paid only to "maintain bureaucracy", c ost savings are entirely possible, and are long since overdue. It could actually convert government into something that.. "..IS here to help you.." when each person is empowered to contribute their best, and expect the same from others.

 For most of us it will be enough to enjoy what the Founding Fathers designed - and We The People deserve. 
 
 When 'WE the People' represent our personal interests within collaboration that mutually serves our fellow citizens and National interests, ONLY THEN... is it Government of..., by..., and for US. 
 Until our elected officials KNOW and represent what we think - they are acting in ignorance or tyranny - or both. 
 Every governing action must: 
 stand its public scrutiny be tracked to its creators be evaluated by all those it is to serve be accepted by the majority of those it impacts - or be reconsidered at the sole volition of those who are governed under it. 
 Any person, process, or action that unintentionally thwarts this Constitutional approach can potentially threaten the equitable representation and justice that under God was intended for all, and is so stated in our Bill Of Rights. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/numeric-web-search
 
 
 Numeric web search
 
 Web search is up to now word based. Additionally language independent similarity search of quantifiable objects is desirable. For well defined numeric representation of quantifiable objects a simple data structure called "pattern" is proposed, which contains a feature vector (a sequence of numbers) for representation of the object, and a "pattern name" which is a URI which uniquely identifies the kind of object which is represented by the feature vector. Pattern: Pattern name + feature vector (+ auxilliary data) Patterns with the same pattern name represent the same kind of object. Because the number of possible pattern names is not limited*, infinitely* many different kinds of quantifiable objects can be represented by patterns. (*only physically limited by finite time and energy) So the search terms are not words, but feature vectors in patterns which allow quantification of similarity. Feature vectors of patterns with the same pattern name are directly comparable using a given metric. At this similarities of the original quantifiable objects are mapped to spatial similarities of the feature vectors. So similarity search is possible by calculating distances: Objects are the more similar, the smaller the distance between the feature vectors of the representing patterns is. Due to the multitude of different kinds of quantifiable objects the work for development of efficient pattern resp. feature vector definitions for their representation is open ended. Global task sharing has the greatest potential: According to this suggestion every owner of an internet domain name abc.xyz gets the right to define feature vectors of all patterns with names abc.xyz/* (in well defined location abc.xyz/pat/*). Patterns are machine readable, uniformly comparable and searchable. They allow to search with the same search engine not only for text, but also for an increasing number of well-defined quantifiable objects on the web. This bundling of the search activity into one crawler and web database for all quantifiable objects is much more efficient than building and managing a database and a crawler for every kind of object. Numeric similarity search could be efficiently combined with conventional word based search, templates can be provided by the defining domain for human readable representation of the numbers. Details are described in http://www.orthuber.com/wpa.htm , don't hesitate to ask me further questions. 
 
 We know that quantifiable objects play a central role in daily life. Nevertheless up to now quantifiable objects have in general no well defined globally machine readable and precise representation on the web. The above concept proposes a simple data structure for such representation of quantifiable objects in general which also allows their similarity search. This could induce the "numeric web" as part of the semantic web. After that also numeric data could be systematically collected which can represent reality more precise than language. 
 There is also inevitability if we search an optimal solution. Due to the multitude of different kinds of quantifiable objects we need worldwide task sharing for efficient definition of patterns. The integration of domain names in the pattern name (URI) allows this from the beginning, and also immediate localization of pattern definition and all further information associated with it (e.g. templates for human readable representation in all relevant languages, metric for comparison for similarity search). 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/e-verify
 
 
 E-Verify
 
 When is the Government going to start using E-Verify? It was renewed with the stimulus program but Pres. Obama keeps postponing its start date! The only way to protect OUR TAX DOLLARS from going to illegal aliens and shady contractors who employ them is to use E-Verify! 
 
 It will keep the Recovery funds from being spent Too quickly and unchecked. E-Verify will keep stimulus jobs out of the reach of illegal immigrants who should not have them in the first place. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/agency-tracking-of-arra-tarp-funds
 
 
 Agency tracking of ARRA &amp; TARP Funds
 
 All agencies receiving ARRA and TARP funds are required to implement the following: 
 Require that recovery funds remain seperate from non-recovery funds Establish Treasury Account Symbols (TAS) to distinguish funds Establish treasury appropriation fund symbols to distinguish accounts Establish audit-ability measures &amp; protocols Establish program &amp; project tracking/monitoring protocols Requiring all fund recipients to track the kinds &amp; scope of all activities Establish procedures to validate accuracy of information Establish internal controls to detect fraud, waste, error and abuse Ensure that standard procurement methods are used to award contracts All of the above must begin by July 10, 2009 
 The first reaction is to create separate, new, system to perform these tasks. Instead, agencies could utilize their existing time and attendance system to perform these activities. 
 
 By utilizing and enhancing the current time and attendance systems, agencies can reduce overhead and setup costs for ARRA and TARP support. In addition, the time and attendance system can provide a unified approach to accurately aggregate civil servant and contractor data and support near real time reporting and oversight. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/education
 
 
 education
 
 revamp NCLB. 
 
 Education is essential to a country's future. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/mortgage-fraud-and-abuse-can-be-stopped
 
 
 Mortgage Fraud and Abuse can be stopped
 
 Today too many mortgage applications are still paper based which makes auditing difficult and allows fraud and abuse to flourish. Title V, SAFE Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 put in place a requirement for loan originators to be trained and licensed but will not be effective if mortgage applications are still paper based and identity numbers (the SAFE Mortgage Licensing Act output) are not tied to electronic signatures that are the legal equivalent of a notarization. 
 By providing an electronic mortgage application submission with the individual loan originator's credentials tied to an HSPD-12 smartcard, HUD, VA, Farm Credit Banks and the GSE's (Government Sponsored Enterprises include Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Federal Home Loan Banks) would then have end to end auditing and compliance capabilities that could be enabled. 
 
 The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (HERA) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), address housing recovery provisions at a macro level through grants and loan programs. However, the confidence of the American people in the mortgage industry, that created loans such as interest only and sub- prime,, is at an all time low. 
 All types of mortgage applications can be made electronic using existing technologies, of which much is already owned. This may be through scanning the paper applications into electronic format or with the entire mortgage application process starting as electronic forms. If the license credentials of each loan originator are identified (in support of SAFE Mortgage Licensing Act) by use of an HSPD-12 smartcard, it would provide a foundation for being able to enforce that if loan originators sell mortgages using loans that are exploitive or deceptive, there would be a legal audit trail used to prosecute the lender and the loan originator. 
 The Sarbanes Oxley Act put in place the enforcement mechanism to require CEOs and CFOs to attest to the validity of their financial filings, so that abuses such as Enron and other high profile corporate scandals will not happen without penalties. An electronic mortgage application submission process, tied to the use of the same digital credentials standards that are used by all Federal workers, would show the American public that there is now a way to enforce and prosecute bad behavior by the mortgage industry. If loan originators write bad mortgages that take advantage of the public, by increasing the likelihood of default, then the loan originator can be identified and stopped. This would be far more than just identifying what lender is selling bad loans. It would identify the individual loan originator that is selling these failing loans. 
 If the public feels that there are new protection measures put in place to reduce and eliminate mortgage fraud and abuse, people will feel safer and will have a greater confidence in banks and lenders that the mortgages will not put them at risk of foreclosure. 
 A solution architecture to achieve this has already been developed and demonstrated to industry and government entities. This has been vetted by of one of the top 10 lenders receiving Stimulus funds, two different State governments that have put in place laws to support this approach, by two large title insurance companies, and through discussions with stakeholders from the Federal entities that oversee the housing and lending industries. This solution is "shovel ready" and a proof of concept with voluntary participants can be implemented in weeks, not months and years. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/federated-identity-for-medical-records-health-it
 
 
 Federated Identity for Medical Records/Health IT
 
 Currently, there are many disparate systems in use for managing, updating and maintaining patient health records and medical/health IT. When patients are mobile, when they move from one insurance company to another, when they move from military or governemtn serivce to the private sector, there is a need for improvement in broader accessibility to patient health and medical records with assurances of privacy and security on a need-to-know/need-to-share basis. If there was a trusted model that would identify, authenticate and provide permission-based and role-based access to a patient's records, doctors and health care providers, pharmacies, insurance companies, and patients would be able to respond to medical issues more quickly and accurately, and in a much more cost-effective manner once such a solution is implemented. 
 
 In a world that is increasing mobile information-rich, and one in which patients and medical care providers, payors and payees must be able to interface and interoperate, there has to be a means for greater and easier access to patient data and the research and treatments available to assist in managing patient well-being. As patients, we must be our own advocates, and as providers of medical care and related services, the community must be able to respond in near real-time, if not real-time. Cost containment is also becoming more and more critical, and the use of IT in a private, legal, protected, permission-based manner would seem to drive improvements in services and should assist in managing sky-rocketing costs. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/getting-the-best-and-most-relevant-data-sourced-by-federal-agencies
 
 
 Getting the Best and Most Relevant Data Sourced by Federal Agencies
 
 The first-generation of end-users of any federal data must ultimately be the role of federal economists, statisticians, and analysts to ensure proper use of funds AND the means to track "behaviors" of grant and contract recipients. It is the second-, and third-generation end-users - outside of the Beltway that need access to the data to sort through the demands, outcomes, and both the economic and societal benefits of investments. Create a Federal-Regional Consortium on Economic Impact to improve upon the collaborations, end-user case studies, and relationships among the programs, technical assistance, and efficacy of the spend. 
 
 Several leading national associations, organizations, and representative groups are already identifying the means to measure the Recovery spend as a test-pilot for aligning expectations in Washington with the realities in the "field" of implementation, mid-course corrections, and scenario options that could assist the country from focusing on just pot-hole filling and more on smart roads. Isn't that what the opportunity is all about - get our nation moving again but in smarter, competitive, and innovative directions? 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/start-google-group-or-other-email-list-for-it-issues
 
 
 Start Google group or other email list for IT issues 
 
 PLEASE SET UP AN EMAIL LIST FOR THIS COMMUNITY TO CONTINUE ITS CONVERSATION. 
 
 The email list could be a Google group or could be with non-commercial software. It could be run by the Recovery Board, NAPA, the W3C e-gov Working Group, or others. Anything that also provided an web-based archive would be great. 
 
 It is pretty clear there is a collection of interested stake holders participating in this brainstorming exercise. But it would be a much fruitful dialogue if it was ongoing. 
 
 Greg Elin 
 gelin@sunlightfoundation.com 
 
 
 The Web moves quickly, the Recovery spending is happening quickly, and people are starting to explore the data that is available. 
 An email list would have hundreds of developers and IT people on staff and good ideas and innovations would be shared very quickly. Also the pros and cons of different issues could be discussed in more detail. Most importantly, however, the community has a whole could quickly and efficiently self-organize around different aspects of the IT challenges. 
 The use of an email list is an excellent, tried-and-true way to
continue an virtual dialogue and peer-to-peer support, especially for
IT users. 
 
(Many tech projects off have a permanent IRC channel set up for more
real-time discussion and support. And wikis are often used as a place
to store often referred to community knowledge.) 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/citizens-recovery-portal
 
 
 Citizens Recovery Portal
 
 As evidenced by suggestions already made, citizens want to approach the recovery from may aspects: geography, jobs created, project types, amounts committed, amounts spent, time to benefit, etc. 
 While the base information about any project is the same, the access dimensions, navigation and drill down preferences will vary. This demands a portal and management information system interface that is a common feature of any effective executive information management. Tools such as Business Objects have the capabilities for their creation. 
 It begins with a mutli perspective high level graphical view of information which answers simple questions of "how are we doing" and enables the user to drill down based on areas of curiosity to get to a level of information that answers the users questions. For example, a simple summary graph showing cumulative jobs created might allow a user to then drill down by state and city or look at jobs created by project type or look at costs per jobs created, etc. Or a simple high level pie chart showing projects by project type could give drill down options of type by geography, etc. 
 
 It provides easy access and transparency while using proven concepts of information engineering and accessability. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/a-national-standard
 
 
 A National Standard
 
 There should be a national governmental data handling and packagaing standard. Basically, all non sensative data related to economic transactions and/or other data should be stored in a standardized way. This would allow easier creation of a software API. With a US government transaction API, a standard on how to report data so it can be accesible to the API, and perhaps even a requirement to conform to these standards, important data will be easier to access and draw relevent conclusions from. 
 
 Data is the most powerful weapon one can have. With proper data management techniques, one can identify sectors of an entity that work well, and those that do not. Additionally, standardization of data will allow for a framework for individuals to build data mining applications that can draw informative conclusions. I believe that all State funded colleges and universities should individually implement the APIs for each state, the government should implement an API on a federal level. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/what-should-be-reported-and-whats-needed-to-do-so
 
 
 What should be reported and what's needed to do so?
 
 There are a variety of
leading and lagging economic indicators used to measure the health
and well-being of our Nation's economy. The leading indicators such
as the stock market tend to tilt upward long before citizens see
marked improvements to their personal situations. A rising stock
market means nothing to the person who's struggling to make a
mortgage payment or find a job. To banks and business owners this is
a prime indicator that boosts confidence and spurs additional
spending and growth - creating jobs and opportunities for a lot of
citizens. Unemployment and consumer spending are some of the
metrics thought to be lagging indicators. As jobs become available
more folks find work as a result of increased confidence from banks
and businesses. As a result consumer spending usually increases. The
truth about the economy lies somewhere in between the leading and
lagging indicators and can be measured through the identification of
relevant correlations. The focus should be on identification
of data and tools available to measure the effects of spending on the
economy. 
 
 A data warehouse should be
developed that is fast, flexible, robust, scalable AND has a low
total cost of ownership. It should not only enable centralized
collection of data but facilitate robust analytics and reporting
required to ensure openness and transparency. 
 
 Among the data inputs
should include: 
 ARRA allocations and
expenditures at a fine grained level, by program, industry, region,
etc Mash-ups of publicly
available data [Unemployment, consumer spending, foreclosure rates,
housing starts, other demographic information that can be directly
correlated to funds spent on specific programs or locales] 
 
 
 Among the data outputs
should include: 
 Visualizations to provide
intuitive understanding of the economic situations and corresponding
indicators Ad-hoc capabilities to run
predictive models and analysis to understand how making changes to $$
allocations for various programs or projects may impact regions
differently and tune these models and allocations as baseline data
becomes available Web 2.0 and feeds to facilitate mashups 
 
<a class="external-link" href="http://www.johnstonmclamb.com/Solutions/recoveryAct2009.aspx">http://www.johnstonmclamb.com/Solutions/recoveryAct2009.aspx</a>
 
 
 
 Data Warehousing is an
important component of the solution. Tracking the funds and spending
is a major component of the solution but it means nothing without an
understanding of the effects of dollars spent. The key is creating
the ability to measure tangible results associated with funds spent,
which means there is a need to correlate monies spent spent with
results. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/lets-get-value-from-recovery-gov-by-providing-a-better-way-idea-lab
 
 
 Let's get value from Recovery.gov by providing a "Better Way" idea lab 
 
 Recovery.gov should yield insights on what's working and what's not. Stimulus Act recipients have a natural incentive to overstate their results, but transparency and public discussion should identify what's working and not. The information at Recovery.gov and peoples' insights can be brought together to create breakthroughs in public policy analysis and management. To accomplish, Recovery.gov should maintain something like this "National Dialogue" and link it to the annual budgeting process. The "idea lab" concept would accomplish that. 
 
 We have an opportunity to take advantage of much more data and many more people's insights than ever before. If we can instigate discussion at recovery.gov and harness the knowledge, expertise, and insights along with the data, we may see breakthroughs in solving problems being addressed by ARRA programs. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/start-with-the-basics
 
 
 Start With The Basics
 
 (1) A project impacting so many aspects of the government is not undertaken without some level of risk. Data will never be perfect. Accept that and get on with it. Adopt an implementation framework that is designed for nimbleness, such as Agile Scrum, to facilitate speed. 
 (2) A good user experience is paramount to success. Consider the many needs of the audience and distill them into a few basic, representative personas around which the site can be designed. View transparency and accountability as a leading "brand" with constituent touch points, of which Recovery .gov is perhaps the most significant in terms of its appeal. 
 (3) Define a simple common vocabulary for constituents, developers, Congress, the Administration, States and Cities. This should include terms like appropriation, obligation, approval, certification and award , among others. Establish a standard corpus of entities and information about them. With the vocabulary and the entities, begin to develop simple data architecture concepts. 
 (4) Choose a basic data format as standard. This doesn't require a significant amount of research as there are many excellent choices available; as long as an open, non-proprietary format is chosen it will be hard to go wrong. 
 (5) An initial dataset is requisite. Get a centralized database up and running quickly and begin processing and standardizing larger volumes of data. It doesn't need to be perfect, and the broad interest from the user community that has already been demonstrated will help to hone the approach. 
 (6) Implement a basic search engine so that spending can be filtered by variables like geography, Federal Supply Codes, and program area. Provide businesses with an easy way to access projects on which they can bid; at a time when businesses are struggling, providing details of Recovery-funded projects serves to create and preserve jobs in local communities. With this, government agencies will get more qualified contractors bidding on contracts and as a result taxpayers will get more value for their dollar - a transparent system that is more efficient. 
 (7) Operate a Recovery Act program assistance center to assist Federal, State and Local agencies with compliance, and assist potential recipients of funds by answering questions about securing grants or contracts. Learnings from this center should be used to inform further development of the site. 
 (8) As the data set grows, provide raw data feeds via APIs to the public at-large. It is not incumbent on the Federal government to create unique and interesting views of the data and, instead, by providing data to developers the public at-large can create engaging user experiences with the underlying data. 
 (9) Look for best practices and pockets of innovation across the public and private sectors which can be adopted. To be successful this can't be onerous on either State, Local and Education entities or the private sector contractors and subcontractors. It is also important to not create an inefficient parallel universe of data and systems. 
 
 At its most fundamental level, this is a data problem not a technology problem. There are some great ideas posted here, many from great vendors with track records of successfully executing on sound strategies. The strategy, however, should start with a basic data set and then layer on these terrific ideas and technologies. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/introduce-a-findability-index
 
 
 Introduce a Findability Index
 
 Industry studies by IT research and trade association firms have concluded there is a persistant challenge for U.S employees to "find" information they need to do their jobs. By some estimates, employees waste 25% of their time "searching" for information to do their job. It is logical to assume this problem is magnified by a factor of 10x in the public sector. 
 
 
 
 
 If Findability and an Index of unstructured and structured data can be improved by a few percentage points then 
 1. Quality service of government would be improved 
 2. Billions Of dollars would be saved. 
 3. The end result would even produce a Green effect from reduced infastructure resulting from optimized IT systems. 
 Note : There is a difference between "searching" and "finding" information. Search Engines are tool that contribute to Findability but they are only one factor. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/folksonomy-based-navigation
 
 
 Folksonomy based navigation
 
 Allow the public to tag expenditures at multiple levels of detail and to have the option to search by these tags as well as by geographical and other categories. 
 
 If the public is to monitor this massive amount of information, they need to be be able to comprehend it. If the categorization of the information is completely centralized, it effectively limits the ability of the public to make sense of it in alternate ways. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/broadly-and-deeply-accessible-across-all-mobile-devices
 
 
 Broadly and deeply accessible across all mobile devices
 
 Mobile devices, such as cell phones and portable music players, have varied abilities to interact with outside sources. Cell phones can interact with SMS, Twitter, web sites, calendars, and more. With a little creativity, people have pushed devices further, such as putting <a class="external-link" href="http://encyclopodia.sourceforge.net">Wikipedia on devices such as older iPods</a>. 
 The information from Recovery.gov should be accessible to mobile devices using their native capabilities (SMS, email, CalDAV, SyncML, WWW, WAP, etc.), and should allow for a two-way conversation. But we should also look to the benign hacking community for ideas about stretching the limits of these devices to bring information to citizens. 
 
 Mobile devices are near-ubiquitous and much of the population spends a lot of time with them. They are more common and less expensive than personal computers, and offer a way to reach a large group of people. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/surprize-arra-weeklty-report-revamp-why
 
 
 Surprize ARRA weeklty report revamp, WHY?
 
 Probably "for more detail," but obfuscation is either the intended or the unintended result. 
 Responsible reporting officials would have released a table explaining how the "TAFS," (the new, and un-de-acronymized, column title in the weekly source file,) and how they relate to the, "Program Source/Treasury Account Symbol Code," (the old, now deleted, column title," would have been responsible. Probably the "announcement" was buried in some fine print somewhere. 
 Does TAFS stand for Treasury Account Fund Source? 
 Why does each TAFS need an embedded note listing all of the TAFS? 
 
 Changing report formats is one of the leading strategies that officials use to confuse readers. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/transportation
 
 
 transportation
 
 Our primary (I 94 &amp; I 96) roads and our secondary (called "blacktops" or "asphalt") roads here in Michigan are in terrible condition. Huge and many potholes. The result of too many years of Republican administration. 
 
 These cause a lot of costly truck and car repairs. We could keep a lot of people employed by fixing the pot holes and help Michigan's economy as well. The road damage not only affects private households but also a lot of big busnesses - adding repair bills and slowed travel to their bottom line . Michigan as a causway between Canada, New York, New England and I 80. So we get a lot of commercial truck traffic. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/cloud-web-2-0-and-identity-management
 
 
 Cloud, Web 2.0 and Identity Management
 
 Cloud Computing is an attractive way to use software in support of the government's mission. As a topic in IT circles, it certainly gets a lot of ink and with the promise of lowering the cost of ownership of commodity based services such as e-mail it is definitely top of mind with the new administration. The only topic in traditional computing that might get as much ink these days is the hacker/cyber security threat, which targets everyone who uses a computer (Mac, PC, Linux, whatever), or smartphone. Hackers can even affect people who don't use a computer, such as my poor mother, who had her credit card information stolen when a retailer she frequents was hacked. There is also the challenge of identity management that many overlook when investigating Web 2.0 and cloud solutions. 
 
 There's no doubt that consumer services like Facebook and cloud platforms like Amazon/Google/Microsoft Azure are opening exciting new ways for government agencies to get data out to the public. However, as exciting as the evolution of the cloud and web 2.0 has been, the public is still stuck with having to use the ancient method of username and password to secure their personal data in all the various sites where they keep information. As the number of sites that people use has grown, I would bet that the vast majority of people out there are using the same or similar usernames/passwords for many of the sites they access not to mention the ability for somebody to easily impersonate another's identity using a familiar user name. On their own, most people don't set a strong password, and if they use the same one on many sites, they run the risk of having their identity stolen. And that is exactly what has happened to so many people. Apply this to Web 2.0 and the cloud and you really begin to ask the question do I really know who I am following when I'm reading my tweets? 
 
 In professional settings today many public and private organizations use identity access services that require manual submission of attributes like name, e-mail address and phone number to verify pin access to sites after initial authentication by leaving voice mails on a user's phone. Although effective it is difficult to scale these types of solutions due to the manual nature of granting the initial access to a user account. 
 
 There are many people in government who have thought about how to move past the requirement to use username/passwords to secure data DOD has been doing that for several years with their PKI infrastructure. The civil agencies have been working to support HSPD 12, although many of them are not there yet. A government cloud promises open collaboration in and between agencies but also introduces new identity management challenges. Consider for example the challenging task of securely federating government employee identities in a government cloud. Citizen facing applications face even more challenging identity management issues. As the Federal government works to get government data more broadly distributed on the sites people use, like Facebook, Twitter, or on a new cloud computing application, the government should think hard about how to do that in a way that does not force the public to rely on the very thin line of defense that is a username/password. . 
 
 The IT industry has not only been innovating in the web 2.0 or cloud computing space over the past few years. In fact, one of the most consequential developments over the past several years has been the establishment of industry standards like SAML 2.0, WS-* and Info Cards, which provide an open, interoperable and very user friendly way to allow people to log on securely to web sites or applications without the use of usernames or passwords. The general term for this is "claims-based authentication", and the government, at all levels (local, state, federal) has a role to play in enabling this more secure way to access data, especially with what can be very sensitive data (think about your tax return or say your social security information). In fact, given the Obama administration's focus on electronic health records (which is a very good idea), the issue of allowing secure access to this digitized information is only going to become more important in the future. While all this is happening, the bad guys out there, intent on stealing personal data for nefarious ends and are only getting smarter and more successful at stealing usernames and passwords from an unsuspecting public. 
 
 Most people, from all walks of life and across the political spectrum, would say that one of the fundamental missions of government is to keep the people safe. While government generally does a good job of keeping people safe in the physical world (police, militaries, etc…), it hasn't really played a role in keeping people safe in cyberspace, except for punishments for the bad guys after the fact. However, with the advent of things like open identity standards such as claims-based authentication, SAML 2.0 and Info Cards, the government can actually mirror the role they have in establishing a person's identity in the real world (e.g. issuing you a driver's license) with the equivalent in the digital world (issuing you an InfoCard to go along with your driver's license). This doesn't mean that the InfoCard you get from the local DMV would then be the only ID you would need to gain access to secure data, but along with other data from other sources (say your employer affiliation, biometric info, etc), you could create an aggregate set of "claims" with attributes about you from a set of authoritative sources (the DMV, your bank, your employer, the passport office) that you would use to log on to a wide variety of public or government websites. If you think about it, this is really just the same thing as the government issuing you a piece of plastic with your picture so you get the right to drive a big piece of metal on the roads the government builds for you. You need that one piece of plastic to drive, but if you want to get into your office, you need another piece of plastic (your employee ID). Sometimes, you need more than one ID to get in, for example the Pentagon. If the Obama administration championed the use of the open InfoCard standard, it would go a long way towards keeping the public safe on the Internet. 
 
 Check out the following links: 
 
 <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/features/2006/feb06/02-14InfoCards.mspx"> http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/features/2006/feb06/02-14InfoCards.mspx </a> 
 
 <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/magazine/cc163626.aspx"> http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/magazine/cc163626.aspx </a> 
 
 
 Direct Access for Windows and Mobile devices: 
 
<a href="http://www.microsoft.com/windows/enterprise/products/directaccess.aspx"> http://www.microsoft.com/windows/enterprise/products/directaccess.aspx </a>
 
 
 As the Web 2.0 and the Cloud play an increasingly vital role in day-to-day citizen and government activities, concerns about online identity theft, fraud and privacy continue to escalate both within the boundaries of the government and thru the governments collaboration with citizens. As the Government begins to investigate how the Cloud can help them meet their demanding transparency and accountability responsibilities it equally important that the data they share and collect is securely managed and accessed. Many industry observers today worry that traditional authentication methods based on account names and passwords have grown inadequate for cloud and online activities. The need for advanced online identity protection has prompted the industry and government to rethink the way digital identity is managed online. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/its-the-spend-continuum-not-just-the-recovery-stimulus-spend
 
 
 Its the Spend Continuum not just the Recovery/Stimulus Spend
 
 Though important and vital, the nearly $800 billion in ARRA resources is but a one-time infusion of capital - for the past ten years there have been trillions of dollars invested in states, counties, cities, and regions. In '09, '10, and the new transportation bill, another $1.2 trillion plus will be spent. The nation needs an on-going correlation of data from the Federal agencies coupled with on-going spend on grants and contracts correlated to outcomes not just jobs. A Public-Private Partnership Consortium that leverages federal information with a whole host of metrics, templates and graphical analytics, real-time mapping, and customized reporting seems to be one solution emerging. 
 
 If the Federal agencies, led by the WH and Congress, only examine the silos of spend by agencies or even groupings of dollars, we limit the opportunity for more effective planning and outcomes-based resource allocations among these silos, assets, and clusters of the economy at the state and regional levels. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/invention-prevents-identity-theft-terrorism-and-much-more
 
 
 Invention Prevents Identity Theft, Terrorism and much more
 
 Dear Sir, 
 I have invented a system that will forever eliminate Identity Thet in all its forms, Terrorism through Identity Theft, Document Fraud, Software Piracy, Voting Fraud, Immigartion and border access, Online Child predators and much more. I made a short video of how this process works and how it applies to the technology infrastructure now in place. 
 <a href="http://www.globalstagesystems.com/identity.htm">http://www.globalstagesystems.com/identity.htm</a> 
 
 My system will save countless billions in financial Losses due to Identity Theft and secure the nations borders and access. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/financial-modeling
 
 
 Financial Modeling
 
 It is naive to imagine that we have learnt all there is to learn from the current financial crisis. We understand that trust was abused. Going forward, it would be useful if the financial industry were offered the option for ethical operations set forth within the framework of a financial operating model. It should be possible to come up with a formal model of financial artifacts and their relationships to each other. Properly designed, this model would aid and constrain decisions to be made concerning a financial situation. Computer programs can be developed to work the model. 
 
 The ability to spend money judiciously and expeditiously are important issues in the recovery act. This can effectively be done with human skill and the help of computerized tools. The skill part is irreplaceable, however, a computer program based on a sound financial model would aid in the expeditious decision making for the disbursement of the money. A formalized model would also be able to report on the effectiveness of the spending. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/the-family-menu-a-plan-for-better-health
 
 
 The family menu - a plan for better health
 
 There are a number of helpful programs that encourage people to have a healthy diet and exercise. Unfortunately they are timeconsuming because they require an individual to enter every piece of information. It is important to build on this system because it rewards health and discourages waste. An easier mechanism of data collection would produce better results. There is no need to require anyone to signup, but like my ATM card the benefits are huge. 
 Collaboration between existing business application to purchase food should be enhanced: 
 The weekly family grocery purchase and menu defined online 
 When food is purchased government agencies could provide an overview to a family that discusses their food habbits. Dieticians could become invovled by providing recommendations on healthy adjustments that fit personal taste. Business could reduce consumer traffic by preparing orders in advance for customers to pick up. Since most of our weekly purchases are similar, online applications would provide suggestions based on past purchases that are tweaked before an order is placed. Consumers would be better able to budget their money and focus on less common purchases (another benefit to business). Consumers should also bring their own containers to pick up orders which would reduce packaging costs. Business could compete for the family menu by demonstrating a cost/quality competitive package that targets the family need. Currently groceries tend to profit from favoring businesses that vi for commercially better shelf space. Forcing groceries to compete for the family diet rewards family behavior that is thought out and preplanned. Planned decisions tend to be healthier for the family. Reducing waste or using it productively needs to be an intimate part of the national fabric. A family menu reduces waste because it helps people focus on buying what they use. Groceries should take back their packaging. By keeping records of purchase business can provide easier recycling for returned bottles, plastic and cardboard packaging. This would encourage groceries to prefer industries that package less. 
 The exercise plan 
 
 Exercise time at gyms could easily be tracked for interested participants. Exercise at schools should be tracked too. It would encourage schools to provide a healthy exercise program for kids Injury should be tracked since this should be a factor in identifying individual accommodations in an exercise plan. 
 
 It is important to educate consumers on how to improve their health in a routine non-critical dialog. This is the role that dietitians and health professionals should be providing. Habits tend to change slowly with routine. IT can provide individual analysis that involve human interaction in a way that is impersonal. 
 It is equally important to find ways to reduce waste from packaging geared to sales and impulse spending. By making the consumer aware of their regular purchases their is less waste. Planned spending focuses on use. Prepared orders reduces waste because it saves time and reduces shop lifting. Competition for the family menu reduces waste because groceries are not forced to pander to packaging. 
 The healthy family is the biggest gain of a planned menu. Humanity can plan to be healthy and should be better educated at every step to do that. Planning also encourages budgeting. Consumers can be informed of cost effective alternatives when savings are required or better quality choices when cost is not a concern. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/too-many-systems-of-records
 
 
 Too many "Systems of Records"
 
 1. Split the information (data) into manageable domains. This will provide a context driven information sharing easier. This will also drive standardization of Master Data that will be useful in several areas around analysis and visualization and semantic based development 
 2. Consolidate the receiving systesms or go to the source for information. This is after the standardization is done. The sources are the agencies and there should be no translation of information from the source to the several "Systems of records" that we currently have. 
 
 
 One of the challenges for recovery.gov is the fact that there are too many "Systems of records" that the agencies have to submit to FPDS, USA Spending, and several others. While these systems are performing their individual actions well, there are several data aspects that are either submitted and losing context or is just not required by these systems. This will also make recovery.gov the central face to citizens and they can navigate through semantics/context to analyze and assess the information. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/using-data-analysis-to-provide-responsible-oversight-of-spending
 
 
 Using Data Analysis to provide responsible oversight of spending
 
 Organizations receiving recovery funds should be required to provide proof that they are effectively overseeing and monitoring the way these funds are being spent. 
 For instance, The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Asset Control provides a list of people and organizations that companies should not trade with - i.e organized crime, drug cartels, terrorists, etc. Similarly there are companies that have been debarred, or forbidden to be contracted for future goods and services. Receiving parties should be required to have effective controls in place and proof that they are monitoring these controls to ensure that recovery money is not going towards these organizations. 
 Similarly, effective data analysis techniques should be used to monitor the efficiency of spending - making sure that contract terms are followed, duplicate payments are not made, fair market prices are being charged. 
 Data analysis should also be used to ensure that spending is not subject to fraud. Simple tests can be used to ensure that receiving organizations are not be defrauded by employees or contracting organizations. Numerous data analysis techniques can be used to identify fraudsters by matching addresses, bank accounts for payments, transactions outside of statistical norms, ensuring that goods paid for are received, just to name a few. 
 Excellent guidance on the use of technology for overseeing financial transactions can be found from The Institute of Internal Auditors, (The IIA) and similarly the Association of Certifed Fraud Examiners (ACFE) has a wealth of information on fraud detection and prevention programs. Data analysis technology is key in enabling best practices in these areas and needs to be implemented from the outset to set the tone for recovery spending activities. 
 
 This idea is important to ensure that we get the most out of our recovery funds and allow them to have the intended affect on our economy. It is also key in demonstrating effective management and oversight of taxpayers money, in order to instill a degree of confidence in local leadership in showing the way forward. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/making-recovery-gov-a-website-for-the-american-citizen
 
 
 Making Recovery.gov a Website for the American Citizen
 
 Step 1: Educate the
public that the site is available 
 It is suggested that the
first step in making Recovery.gov a website that the public can use
to "monitor the expenditure and use of recovery funds" is to
first educate the public that the site exists. Use of social
networking sites or periodic RSS feeds from other government agencies
that reference the site are two suggestions for doing this. 
Although this is not a primary focus of this exercise, it should be
mentioned that large scale, continual notification to the public of
the site's existence reinforces the goal of transparency. 
 Step 2: Site
Organization and Data 
 The second step in
improving Recovery.gov is to identify the issues related to the
Recovery Act that Americans are most concerned with and then ensure
that the site is focused on these issues - both from an site
organization view as well as a data view. 
 Currently, when a user
first hits the site they see a display titled "Transforming Federal
Buildings into High Performance Green Buildings", recent news
feeds, announcements, and a timeline at the bottom that has
information until July of this year. All this information is
pertinent, but is it really pertinent to the public citizen? 
 An alternate approach is
to display a list of topics for the user to choose what they are
interested in seeing, such as education, job creation, homeland
security, or tax credits. Upon selection, the user is presented with
a display of all programs that have monies/details associated with
the particular selection, and a geographical representation of where
those monies have been allocated. In the case of tax credits,
details of the credits would be listed. Additional information such
as job creation could also be included. Mouseovers would provide
more detailed information on the given program and/or agency. The
overall goal of the drilldown page is to provide one stop shopping to
the user for all information concerning the selection. 
 What are the questions
that the public is looking for answers to? 
 
 What exactly is
 recovery.gov 
 
 Where is the benefit
 to me by going here? Looking at numbers sent to agencies - I
 don't know what those agencies do, I don't know what those
 programs are. How does that money trickle down to me? 
 
 How do I find out
 about more about the programs initiated through the money (sales tax
 benefits, credits for hiring out of school grads)? 
 
 How are agencies
 working together to solve issues? Query by issue type to see if
 something exists on that issue? 
 
 See state
 comparisons/rollups more readily - which states are getting what
 kind of funding in only one click - not 5 
 
 Timeline shows
 nothing. 
 
 Education, Jobs,
 Healthcare - how is my neighborhood affected, calling my
 congressman 
 
 Simple voting on
 initiatives - public belief in the programs chosen - giving the
 public a voice, see where the concerns are. 
 
 How is this money
 being recouped? Agencies are cutting back on funding, but what
 exactly does that mean - where? 
 
 How is the TARP
 money being allocated and what are the high level aspects of this
 money going to them? 
 
 
 
 The success of
Transparency relies on the ability to quickly convey the answers to
questions germane to the general public. It is not enough to
merely display the total amount of dollars allocated to a particular
agency or state along with a summary of what has been obligated or
disbursed. For this data to provide a level of transparency, more
detailed information must be provided in a manner that is easily
accessible and digestible by an everyday citizen. Additionally,
 relationships between data need to be clearer . 
 The current Recovery.gov
site is heavily text based and presents only surface level
information to the user. Often, it is necessary to navigate through
three web pages or to an entirely new website to view data that is
truly informative to a general public user. Although the site is
fairly clean in nature (no broken links, fonts are consistent, etc.),
there is no ability to easily download or print information, nor is
there is use of Web 2.0 technologies. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/this-forum-should-be-published-more-extended
 
 
 This forum should be published MORE!! extended!!! 
 
 I think the window of opportunity for this forum needs to be extended. I just happened to go to recovery.gov tonight and spoted this WEB SITE. I think seven days is too short. 
 For an IT site it is pretty limited. You can only view 5 items at a time. Barack stands for change, this site should set the standard for user freindliness and drilling for jewels. I am willing to help!!! Right now this look like a typical boiler plate 1990's web site. IT should set the standard!!!! 
 
 There is an old saying.GIGO. The solutions are only as good as the information that is collected. How can this information be summarized/visualized!!! 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/time-geo-and-multimodal-data-viz-on-recovery.gov
 
 
 Time, Geo, and Multimodal Data Viz on Recovery.gov
 
 <a href="http://www.recovery.gov">www.recovery.gov</a> is a great start to actually give life and breadth to the ARRA, its funds, distribution, etc. The website provides some good visualizations of ARRA but not enough. High quality visuals are eye-catching, can be thought-provoking, and ultimately can enable transparency to ARRA. We need more and they need to be more fun, informative, and share-able. 
 We (<a class="external-link" href="http://piim.newschool.edu">The Parsons Institute for Information Mapping</a>) propose extending the usefulness and interactivity of the site's existing information graphics and provide American citizens the ability to visualize the true spend and success of these funds. We need to unite these datasets and visuals into comprehensive and interactive graphics. 
 Leveraging the info. graphics on the <a href="http://www.recovery.gov">www.recovery.gov</a> homepage and incorporating the datasets everyone here is talking about sharing can give some really powerful visualizations - visuals that people will remember, share with friends/colleagues, and help foster the national discussion while supporting transparency. 
 Some examples of work we've done that can be very helpful: 
 The Public Opinion Tool (<a href="http://www.publicopiniontool.org">http://www.publicopiniontool.org</a>) - a web-based tool that educates K-12 students about the electoral process through visualiation and interactivity. 
 The Geospace and Media Tool (<a href="http://piim.newschool.edu/development/geospace-and-media-tool">http://piim.newschool.edu/development/geospace-and-media-tool</a>) - a Section 508/web-based tool for members of US Congress to assess, analyze, and visualize streaming news, demographic, social network, geospatial, and other datasets in a single system. 
 We focus on finding, designing, and engineering innovative visualizations and <a href="http://www.recovery.gov">www.recovery.gov</a> can benefit with a collaboration betwen us and <a class="external-link" href="http://www.esri.com">ESRI</a> and others (e.g. <a class="external-link" href="http://www.visualanalytics.com">Visual Analytics, Inc</a>., IBM [<a class="external-link" href="http://www.many-eyes.com">Many Eyes</a>], etc.). 
 
 Having time-based, geographic-based, and multi-modal (e.g. same data different representation) can help Americans of many backgrounds understand ARRA in their own way. Providing various representations enables communication to a wider audience and helps "speak" to each and every citizen. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/captions-subtitles-on-your-video-this-website-and-video-need-my-help
 
 
 Captions/Subtitles on your video!!!! This Website and Video need my help!
 
 Hello, I'm the one that submitted the "Twitter, or Twitter like, with logs, Real-Time communication" idea! 
 
 Your website and video need my help! For example, I was not able to go back in and delete, or change my idea, I had to add a second idea, rather than modify the one I had post (though I'm sure you have your reasons, but you could have idea mods saved for review, if you like... there are ways!). 
 Also, in your video, I could not understand you names, I could not hear clearly what your names are? I can fix that... one) record the sound and post it much better, two) add subtitles/captions. Is this website only for the hearing? Seems as though you're leaving out a good portion of the idea public in this endeavor. 
 I would definitely advise, take advantage of Interactive/MultiMedia/Scaling! 
 Also, hire (or subcontract, or freelance) me! I desperately need the work, or I lose my home next month! 
 Now, where is the home mortgage recovery website (again, Thank You)? 
 Sincerely, 
 WOOMZA.com 
 
 
 This website could be far, far better as well as the videos. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/show-planned-versus-actual-spending
 
 
 Show planned versus actual spending
 
 It takes an act of Congress to open a spicket this large. Please share exactly what was presented to get approval for this kind of funding. That would be the baseline planned spending. As the plans change, lets see those changes over time. When new funds are requested, lets see the planning documents. 
 
 We went to Irag because there were weapons of mass destruction that might be used against us or our allies. Turns out that wasn't true. Yet - we are still there. The initial basis for the invastion was not substantiated but once the spicket is open, all bets are off. It would be very helpful to know the original intentions, missions, objectives so we'll know when we have left them behind. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/mediation-because-we-have-to
 
 
 Mediation - Because We Have To
 
 Data Mediation - its not actually my idea. Its currently one of the foundational issues facing the federal government and the Deparment of Defense. Data exists in multiple different environments and each environment is a world unto itself, a world with its own language created by the requirements generators, program managers and developers. But the data inside these worlds resides in a jail of the designers making, and, without the correct foundation for release, relies upon point to point mediations (AKA interfaces) with other systems. 
 Mediation must be done through a canonical model based on common vocabularies built from ontologies. These vocabularies are built semantically - there is no one to one matching of terms, rather the definitions of the terms are matched through the relationships that define them. 
 We need to agree upon a defined scope and concept of operations for mediation across the federal government and then apply this through a set of agreed upon standards. 
 The mediation scope 
 We need to agree upon a defined scope and concept of operations for mediation across the federal government and then apply this through a set of agreed upon standards. 
 The mediation scope would include: 
 Semantic mediation 
 Ontological mediation 
 Metadata mediation 
 Protocol adaption 
 Data transformation 
 Security transfer (low side to high side) 
 Relationship of mediation to messaging 
 
 A point to point interface costs an estimated $500,000 over the lifetime of the system. 
 Each change in a mediation requirement or an underlying data element leads to a change in each interface. 
 Without the means to mediate between different vocabularies, the ultimate consumer of data, the public, will not be able to discover useful data and genenate valuable patterns from the data. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/adopt-a-new-world-view-of-transparency-4-steps-to-achieve
 
 
 Adopt a "New World" view of Transparency: 4 Steps to Achieve
 
 Government is truly entering a "new world" - one where citizen engagement matters. That is what transparency is really about. And that is why distributed transparency is important - it leads to effective engagement that truly builds citizen trust.

So how do we achieve distributed or network transparency? In other words how do we dimensionalize government's interactions with citizens, stakeholders and internal agency groups? This is an important question because transparency based on portal based publication, standing alone, will not achieve its intended purpose of building public trust and involvement.

&lt;b>&lt;i>Twitter Themes&lt;/i>&lt;/b>

Let me share a twitter exchange that started with the following two points:

(1) kpkfusion Recovery.gov becomes a single point of failure in a risk assessment. It fails, transparency fails in the public's eyes. #gov2

(2) kpkfusion Transparency advocates should consider distributed network transparency more broadly defined to limit risk of public failure. #gov2

Dan Bevarly (@dbevarly) responded to Sarah Bourne (@sarahebourne) and myself (@kpkfusion) that:

dbevarly: @sarahebourne @kpkfusion Not in agreement. This is insider's (ours) view. Public still does not know what Web transp looks like #gov2

Sarah responded:

sarahebourne: @dbevarly Mismatch btwn what they expected and what is delivered. Problem is potential variations in what is expected. Can be mitigated!

I think that the point that both Dan and Sarah made is important - do citizens really understand what we mean by transparency? Is there an alignment between citizen expectations and what government plans to deliver to achieve "transparency". And what is it?

&lt;b>&lt;i>Distributed transparency&lt;/i>&lt;/b>

As state and local government agencies race to define what is a somewhat abstract notion of transparency, let's ask important questions.

What do citizens expect? Is it another government portal which aggregates volumes of contract data? Or is it something else? Something more meaningful? This is where distributed citizen transparency is most relevant. Citizens will only value that which directly affects them and their quality of life - not an abstract policy debate.

The point is that transparency requires more than publication. It requires dialogue and engagement on a state and local level - in decentralized communications models. What does that mean, and how can government agencies achieve transparency through citizen networks and engagement strategies?

&lt;b>&lt;i>4 steps to "New World" transparency&lt;/i>&lt;/b>

Here are 4 quick steps to consider as we are thinking about how to build network transparency for state and local government.

&lt;i>Step 1: Help gov act "in network". Government should consider evolving from its traditional role of publication to one of interactive sharing.&lt;/i>

As in business, "old world" government organizations have traditionally relied upon a two way exchange - advertising messages, or "portalizing" information. In the "old world" government agencies stand outside of citizen networks and pitch messages into the networks. In the "new world" agencies are being asked to act "in network". In other words agencies are being asked to create value by letting citizens dialogue, debate, and share ideas, based on content added to citizen networks by government agencies.

So the first key in building transparency is to enable localized citizen networks. For instance, when state and local government agencies want to stimulate citizen engagement in transportation, healthcare, education, or other projects will they be most effective with local project involvement sites that support peer to peer communication and perhaps peer based alternative analysis, or a portal with centralized publication of contract information?

&lt;i>Step 2: Enable citizens to share information with each other - building ideas and solution possibilities, in network.&lt;/i>

Businesses are learning that consumers are 9 times more likely to act on the recommendation of a peer (another consumer/citizen) acting "in network" than an business acting out of network, an advertisement. The same can be said of government agencies.

If government actively enables citizens to provide input and to have dialogue with each other, those discussions can lead to the discovery of new solution possibilities and priorities in a way that government acting alone can not. That is the point of transparency. Citizens build trust through dialogue and discussion, not simple availability of information.


&lt;i>Step 3: Government absorbs ideas and new solution possibilities to create efficiencies, save costs,and increase productivity "in network".&lt;/i>

The whole point of listening to citizens is to make things better: (1) To make government work better (2) To make better policy decisions and to (3) identify priorities and make decisions. Getting results builds trust. To build network transparency, government has to not merely accept input and ask citizens to "connect the dots", but to set expectations on how that input will be used - getting to results.

&lt;i>Step 4: As government achieves results "in network" it builds trust with citizens, which in turn accelerates citizen exchange.&lt;/i>

Finally, government has to show citizens how inputs are used. Did their participation matter? That is the point of distributed transparency. As citizens we do things that matter - that make a difference. As government we build trust when citizens make a difference, when we act on their constructive dialogue.

That is the point of acting "in network". That is why distributed transparency is important. That is how government agencies will build meaningful results, and that is how citizen transparency will be a sustainable organizing principle for government. 
 
 The recovery.gov model itself should be examined. At great cost and expense, it misses the point that transparency is only created when government acts "in network" instead of in traditional portal based public communications systems. 
 The model which will truly create transparency would enable state and local government to deploy citizen participation technologies in project based environments. We have built these systems for years, in SaaS models for such projects as Imagine New York, Flight 93 memorial, Statue of Liberty, DoD DAPA, and the Citizen's Healthcare Study. The technology exists today. The current approach being taken by GSA is neither state of the art, nor is it the most cost effective approach. Nor is it ultimately going to meet the intended purpose of building citizen trust. It fails to take advantage of years of experience in building citizen networks and favors using portal based strategies. 
 Constructively, more transparency and citizen involvement can be accomplished at a much lower cost and much more effectively. 
 See http:www.neighborhoodamerica.com Enterprise networks. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/grant-for-paying-for-school-if-you-are-unemployed
 
 
 GRANT FOR PAYING FOR SCHOOL IF YOU ARE UNEMPLOYED
 
 Most professionla people that are laid off a looking at going back to school to get some type of certification. Project Management / Ecommerce is very in demand currectly. Why is the agencies that have the fund from the Government so restricted in how this is utilized. 
 
 This is very important because their is no accountability. No one is looking at in demad programs and getting the colleges and unviersites involved. Instead Workforce1 in NYC have to decide on which school and what program you should do. However they are out of touch working with professionals. The schools and programs that they have are not relevant to working professionals that currently have their Bachelors or Masters Degree and who simply need Certification courses. Instead they have endorsed schools that are considered to be diploma mills and have no creditability. This needs to be changed and should be open to Colleges and Universities that offer continuing education certificate programs. No one from Workeforce 1 is soliciting professional schools to participate in their program but instead leaves it up to the school to do so. Their is no accountability for this program because the schools that do participate are the ones that you would not even want to do a program with as it is not an reconized college or university. The schools that they have can be here today for the government money and then gone tomorrow. So what good is that certification if the employer needs to verify that you actually took the course. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/dont-reinvent-reuse
 
 
 Don't Reinvent, Reuse
 
 Use services such as Google Docs, Video, and Sites to
collaborate and share program management data and related artifacts for reuse. 
 
 1) Limits
the size of documents, forcing succinct and unadulterated specifications, descriptions,
and program reviews. 
 2) Open Standard compliant. 
 3) Accessible via a browser. 
 4) Google
Open APIs freely available. 
 5) Supports multiple document and data fromats. 
 6) De
Facto data mining Google search compatibility. 
 7) Supported
by not just a handful of proprietary developers. 
 8) Supported
by a ubiquitous always on service, cloud infrastructure. 
 9) Program
management data such as RFPs, Gannt charts, spreadsheets, requirements,
specifications, reviews, analysis, and site inspections can be made available, traceable and understandable to the public. 
 10) Public oversight
through crowdsourcing published or in-progress documents. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/making-it-easy-to-create-and-share-location-based-information
 
 
 Making it easy to create and share location based information
 
 The biggest barrier to communicating information and trends
geospatially is how difficult and costly it is for most people or organizations
to translate their data into a communicative geospatial form. When it is done, the
result is usually a static map or one that is somewhat interactive but
difficult to use or share. This creates a huge barrier to knowledge sharing and
collaboration. We have just released a free beta version of a product
that addresses these issues. We would love feedback from those who have information they would like to more easily translate into
and share in a geospatial form. Please sign up for the beta and try it - we think our offering can make a
significant contribution to the work of this community - spatialkey.com 
 
 Enabling regular people - non GIS analysts and professionals - to create and share location based information easily will accelerate information sharing, contextual analysis and community collaboration. It will help unlock information critical to the core issues facing our society and government. It will help facilitate more informed interactive dialog among mutiple stakeholders resulting in faster, better informed decision making. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/cobra-costs-paid-by-government
 
 
 COBRA costs paid by government
 
 Currently the plan includes partial payment of COBRA costs of unemployed workers to be paid by the government. I feel the funds provided should be broken down by the amounts insurance providers have received compared to the amouunt of lobbying money they spend. 
 
 I feel a better program could have been designed to cover employees who loose their jobs because of unemployment and the spending benefits the insurance industry more than the unemployed worker 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/reporting-expenditure-of-construction-funds
 
 
 Reporting Expenditure of Construction Funds
 
 I have an idea that won't require creation of a single additional piece of paper. How about assigning a unique identifying number to each individual project funded in whole or in part by these appropriations. Create a database attaching the identifier with the brief project description already included in the front end of every government construction contract. Then, link the identifier to .pdf copies of the contractor's sworn statement and lien waivers already submitted with each monthly pay request on every government construction job. 
 
 This way, citizens interested in the progress and efficiency of any particular project could quickly drill down to a complete list of every business that was paid any money for labor or materials on the project. Furthermore, neither the bureaucrats nor the contractors on the project would have to write up a single document they are not already required to prepare. As far as I can tell all this information is already required to be public under the freedom of information laws in every state anyway, so no one's toes get stepped on, and no one has to do any extra work. Just run the sworn statements and lien waivers through a scanner every month and e-mail them to Devaney's folks in Washington, D.C. for electronic insertion into the database. Nobody even has to spend money on stamps. Mission accomplished. 
 
 
 Nobody has to create any reports or dopcuments which aren't already needed and used in the payment process, and payment details are immediately accessible to the public. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-electronic-forms-to-accelerate-data-collection-cut-costs
 
 
 Use electronic forms to accelerate data collection &amp; cut costs
 
 The Recovery.gov web initiative could accelerate the speed and cut the costs of gathering, integrating and sharing data and information by using modern COTS electronic forms as a component of the solution. Web-enabled forms, designed as standards-based containers that are used to collect information both on and off-line, enable faster, cheaper and more flexible data collection than traditional HTML-based web pages. They can be deployed in days not weeks or months, in formats that enable direct, secure submission of data that is automatically written into target application systems and databases, backed up by builit-in Level 2 signatures where desired at no extra cost to users or the government. They offer the power and flexibility of being distributed in many ways, as components of a web site, as attachments to emails, and as links from and to any location on the web. And because they support robust, built-in data management and business rules capabilities, they make it easier to collect better quality data that government gets when it needs it and with quality that it can rely on . 
 
 Recovery.gov, like the goverment in general, runs on information, but conventional paper and even web 1.0 information collection mechanisms can be expensive and slow to implement. Modern electronic forms that integrate directly within web-based applications and databases cut costs for data providers and recipients, accelerate delivery, and improve results. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-a-plan-before-creating-a-budget
 
 
 Create a plan before creating a budget
 
 The fact that millons of dollars have been assigned to projects without any milestones beyond July 15, 2009 is mindboggling. Until a real plan with deliverables is created, there should be no budget assigned to anything. 
 
 It is our tax dollars that will pay for these efforts. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/human-interface-guidlines
 
 
 Human Interface guidlines
 
 Follow principles outlined by Aza Raskin, son of Jeff Raskin the inventor of the GUI (graphical user interface), what made computing popular. 
 You can see his blog here: 
 http://www.azarask.in/blog/ 
 You can see one of his projects here: 
 http://www.humanized.com/ 
 And you can see the development of what he is doing with Mozilla Labs (the group that makes Firefox) here: 
 http://labs.mozilla.com/projects/ubiquity/ 
 
 Human interface guidlines, the ergonomics of working with a varied computing infastructure, or in your case a "webapp" is essential for making sure the interface with the public is coherent, easy to use, and is elegant in its approach. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/voice-of-customer
 
 
 Voice of Customer?
 
 This forum should have been directed towards the broader internet community, with more publicity, and time to vote, in order to gain the Voice of the Customer (VOC) from the American people. 
 
 If the whole point is to better serve the public, why not ask them about it and not the sepcial interest industry. You can't get people on the internet with fancy Java, but you can keep them engaged and better yet, active citizens. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-a-research-management-solution
 
 
 Use a Research Management Solution 
 
 
 
 Use a Research Management Solution (RMS) to track the due
diligence performed by the government agencies tasked with distributing
stimulus funds. An RMS can systematically capture and organize the unstructured
information required for the analysis of stimulus investments. RMS has been
successfully adopted by money managers all over the globe as a way to create an
open and transparent collaboration among analysts, power better choices for
decision-makers, and create a structured audit trail of analysis. 
 
 
 
 99% of the world's information is unstructured: email
correspondence, documents, spreadsheets, slide decks. While quantitative
analysis is critical, many of the most important decisions are driven by human
discourse - in words not just numbers. Research Management Solutions transform
the cacophony of disparate email inboxes and shared drives into a structured
database shared in real time across global organizations. To provide complete
transparency for the public, the agencies responsible for application of stimulus
funds need to track their internal assessments. These assessments will include
large bodies of correspondence and prose analysis. Research Management
Solutions can transform the potentially chaotic investment research process
into a coherent, organized, and agency-wide effort. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/deploy-a-hybrid-cloud
 
 
 Deploy a Hybrid Cloud
 
 Recovery.gov will more then likely be a very complex interwoven set of enterprise service buses (ESBs) and applications. The chance of all applications playing nicely are probably remote. Of course that is the fun part!! 
 To support such an environment I would normally recommend a hosted private cloud which allows the cloud owners to make the needed alterations without impacting other members of the cloud. Part of that flexibility can be to reach out to a public clould if needed for peak hours of performance A.K.A Hybrid Cloud 
 In a particular use case, some applications may be to complex or sensitive to run on a public cloud. In that case applications that can be migrated could be moved to a public cloud and then those resources can be repurposed for the complex apps that need to stay home. 
 I have to give props to a good friend of mine who thought of this a few weeks back when we were brain storming on cloud use cases. 
 
 The hybrid approach makes sense both from a technology and economic standpoint. It allows for control, flexibility and growth. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/fhwa-mutcd-updates
 
 
 FHWA MUTCD Updates
 
 To update the FHWA MUTCD, Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, in a timely manner. 
 
 It now takes years to correct errors in the FHWA MUTCD and bring traffic control devices, such as signs, traffic line markings, work zone rules, into the 21st century. 
 The current MUTCD has not been updated in years. It was designed for roads that were used 50 years ago. Speeds have increased, signs have (somewhat) improved, but because of the involved system of revision, all changes must be done at one time. 
 Revisions should be done by sections. The legal MUTCD exists only online. Paper copies are not legal and too often outdated. When practitioners rely on improper data, accidents happen. 
 Some rules, such as road markings, are so complicated that the people who actually paint the traffic lines do not understand the original intent of the rules and very often paint incorrect lines. That presents the driver with incorrect information. 
 Safety, and reduced accidents are the issue. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/intelligent-design-modular-farming
 
 
 INTELLIGENT DESIGN MODULAR FARMING
 
 ICT driven small scale modular farming which utilizes ICT to a maximum to expand arable land, improve crop yields and help achieve the Millennium Development Goals to reduce poverty and hunger. 
 See: http://www.paradiso-fp7.eu/contributions.php 
 
 The concept was born out of necessity to meet several demands, first
and foremost the Millennium Development Goals, specifically for
combating poverty and hunger, meet with demand for food and food
security for the ever increasing human population in cities and the FAO
Food for the Cities initiative. 
 
 
It combines new insights in organic waste recycling, waste water
recycling, renewable energy technologies, plastics recycling and
organic composting. 
 
 
It borrows architectural design ideas and concepts on optimizing
surface and three dimensional space and incorporation of vegetation for
decoration and small scale farming into urban design, and builds on the
Japanese concept of modular building design and recent concepts of
vertical farming. 
 
 
Intelligent design in modular farming is based on modern concepts of
precision farming and smart farming, where networked (netted) sensors
are used, GPS, ICT technologies to regulate various (automated)
processes, provide climate control, and remote data access via the
Internet. 
 
 
Intelligent Design Modular Farming is an ICT driven, generalized
concept for agriculture, where in contrast to fixed surface farming,
specific food crops can be grown in mobile or movable modular
environments in a wide range of non-traditional agricultural settings. 
 
 Intelligent Design Modular Farming combines the best of all existng, emergent technologies e.g. linked data and semantic web and smart farming, contributes to creating green jobs and gives content to US commitment to global sustainable development objectives as outlined in the Millennium Development Goals. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/health-record-data-transmission-standard
 
 
 Health Record Data transmission Standard
 
 Develop a national ANSI standard for electronid health record exchange and mandate it's usage! 
 
 In order to increase the usage of e-Health record systems which can save lives. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/trust-enablement-infrastructure-a-trust-keystone-system
 
 
 Trust Enablement Infrastructure: a Trust Keystone System
 
 You asked: "What do you consider to be the most exciting upcoming technology or
system in the field of managing, aggregating, and visualizing diverse
types of data?" 
 In short, my proposal is a Trust Keystone System . It is a Trust Enablement® infrastructure component that supports all information within the recovery.org ecosystem (analogous to, but not the same as, a generalized eBay infrastructure stripped of the auction and buy-now applications). 
 Trust Enablement® is a proactive, strategic approach to designing business processes that give stakeholders the confidence they need to take consequential actions, such as relying on the validity of information about how the recovery and investment money is being used. 
 
 Trust Enablement® is used by organizations in technologies and business processes to help them achieve their business goals by optimizing the trust of their stakeholders. Trust Enabled(tm) business practices reduce transaction costs and enhance business value in areas as diverse as supply chain management and corporate governance. Trust Enablement® is both a management philosophy and a technology for business best practices. It fills a business practices void by counterbalancing risk management based control mechanisms that preserve trust, with those that develop trust, and thereby provides a complementary, foundational, new management competency. It serves to fundamentally change the leadership mindset from an inside-out to an outside-in orientation. Trust Enablement® has broad applicability, similar to risk management, but its value to business and government is far greater. Whereas risk management is defensively minded and preservation oriented, Trust Enablement® is offensive and growth oriented. For more information about Trust Enablement® visit our web site at <a class="external-link" href="http://TrustEnablement.com">http://TrustEnablement.com</a>. 
 
 
 Although " accountability " and " transparency " are the stated goals of
the President's Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, I would
argue that the overriding objective is trust (this is supported by
other idea contributors, including IBM). However, accountability and transparency are insufficient conditions for trust , as per our Trust Enablement® Framework. The Trust Enablement® Framework should guide development of a Trust Enablement Infrastructure, an integral part of the larger conceptual model used to guide strategic deployment of the site's functionality. A robust conceptual model allows management to make more complete decisions about which tools and process are needed to support the stated mission of recovery.org. In the absence of a blueprint to guide development the basis for relying on the information will be inconsistent, which will erode
confidence and undermine the effort. Moreover, there is a danger that
over-reliance on transparency and accountability , both critical but
insufficient components of a comprehensive Trust Enablement®
Infrastructure, can cause management to take their eyes off the ball and miss the
overriding objective. We must guard against the tendency of the vast majority to think exclusively about the IT elements for the solution, which can be shortsighted; reinforcing conventional wisdom and the status quo that results in fragmentation. 
 To further support my recommendation, I would direct you to recent polls I conducted that revealed management may not have sufficient competency in enabling trust. See "Insiders' Poll on Trust in Online Social Networks" (<a class="external-link" href="http://trustenablement.com/OSN_Trust_Poll-SummaryData.pdf">summary data</a> and <a class="external-link" href="http://trustenablement.com/Insiders_Poll_on_Trust_in_OSNs-PreliminaryFindings.pdf">finding</a>) and answers to a recent poll asking "<a class="external-link" href="http://trustenablement.blogspot.com/2009/04/results-from-stakeholder-trust-poll-of.html">What should business leaders do to improve stakeholder trust?</a>". I also analyzed Canada's Federal Accountability Act (similarly misnamed) to determine the extent to which it contributed to restoring trust in the wake of a high profile government fraud, and found that the term " accountability " may have caused the program to overemphasize protecting over rebuilding trust (see my article "<a class="external-link" href="http://trustenablement.com/local/Creating_trust_in_government.pdf">Restoring Trust in Government is more than Cleaning House</a>". The same was to true when I analyzed Sarbanes-Oxley Legislation in my paper "<a class="external-link" href="http://trustenablement.com/local/Trust_Enabled_Corporate_Governance.pdf">Trust Enabled Corporate Governance</a>". In support of my position that trust should be an explicit consideration that can and should be addressed systemically, I would direct you to my contributions to the Conference Board of Canada's reports on stakeholder trust at <a class="external-link" href="http://trustenablement.com/index.htm#StakeholderTrust">http://trustenablement.com/index.htm#StakeholderTrust</a>. Finally, beware of vendors promoting myopic solutions as per <a class="external-link" href="http://social.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/EndToEndTrust/thread/60502672-288e-41dc-ab0a-2a65c2d8d6dd">my comments on Microsoft's End-to-End Trust initiative</a>. 
 How can a system intended to develop trust that does not explicitly and competently address trust considerations be expected to have the desired outcome? What's your counter proposal? 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/concerns-about-choosing-rural-broadband-awards
 
 
 Concerns About Choosing Rural Broadband Awards
 
 The task of choosing rural broadband awards will be daunting. Up to this point in time as an example, RUS has awarded loans &amp; grants that equal nearly the amount that is being asked to be awarded in 2 years. That would infere that to follow the Administration's mandate for dispersing funds, it would behoove the USDA &amp; NTIA to grant LARGE project awards to more easily utilize manpower to evaluate award performance that has to pass in front of Congress for reviews. The obvious bias will be towards larger companies and that will not necessarily give rural areas the coverage that they desperately need. Smaller companies with appropriate business plans will be more inclined and more familiar with covering Rural America in high-speed broadband. If the major companies had business plans to cover rural areas, they would have already accomplished the task. 
 
 Rural America will be better served by dispersing a majority of the Simulus Funds to smaller, rural Companies. RUS will have to significantly change their review and acceptance process in order to get the funds out where they are needed. Let's not just look at what they have awarded, also review how much money was actually dispersed. Change the criteria to 10% instead of 20% for a business-match requirement. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/wiki-for-executable-english-qa-over-data
 
 
 Wiki for Executable English QA Over Data
 
 Use new technology to empower citizens and gov folks to add to the data knowledge about how to answer questions. 
 The free WIki for executable English, online at <a href="http://www.reengineeringllc.com">www.reengineeringllc.com</a> , shows how to do this, with examples about energy independence, carbone mitigation, etc. 
 
 
 THis makes QA over government and other data extensible by ordinary users. The results are explained in English, at the end user level. 
 THe WIki can also be used as a knowledge endpoint on the web, and so can be integrated into service oriented architectures. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/tracking-grants-for-energy-efficiency-and-their-long-term-benefits
 
 
 Tracking Grants for Energy Efficiency and their long-term benefits
 
 IDEA: For each grant recipient, grant funds' disposal data and energy efficiency achievement data must be available in a single database for public awareness and analysis. 
 Huge amounts of economic stimulus dollars are directed towards energy efficiency in public buildings and in schools. Four compliance goals for this grant money ought to be: (1) it was spent quickly to create jobs, (2) it was spent wisely on RIGHT retrofits, (3) that energy efficiency actually improved in each building and was sustained, and (4) reporting the compliance status ought to be automatic, i.e., should not be costly, time or labor effort intensive. 
 Transparency surrounding the grant money must include not just who got how much money when but also the results attained and maintained through the uses of the money. 
 Money should be accounted for in nationally standardized GL codes and budget status categories. Invoices covering all spending must be available as scanned images on-line (or equivalent EDI transactions) showing the accounting trail in terms of amounts, recipients, dates, and purposes. 
 Energy Efficiency results should be accounted for starting with baselines of energy usage, costs, and Energy Star Performance Rating benchmarks. Use of environmental sensors and sub meters can de-construct the energy use at process level within buildings at hourly or shorter intervals. Retrofit decisions can be then made wisely. It is wise to "Read The Problem" before starting the spending on solutions. 
 Having collected the baseline for each building in terms of its energy use, spend, and Energy Star Performance Rating benchmarks, it is now possible to track these results month by month in future years to see if Energy Efficiency (measured as Energy Star Performance Ratings) actually improved through the retrofits installed and was sustained over the years. 
 TeleBright's ManageRight database platform currently provides the foregoing capabilities today and can be scaled. All data can be made publicly searchable with analytical reporting to enable FULL transparency. 
 Regardless of actual IT solution deployed, (1) the total spending, and (2) Energy Star energy efficiency ratings data for all buildings, for all grant recipients must become public; and become available for search and analysis by the public. 
 
 
 This idea is good because the common sense objectives behind the grant are met at very low cost and effort. It holds grant recipients accountable for spending the grant money quickly, wisely, and enables them to report (easily) on the residual energy efficiency improvements results achieved and sustained long after the original grant money got spent. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/fund-the-slm-education
 
 
 Fund the SLM Education 
 
 You need to look forward to the Future and fund this much needed interprise. 
 
 I have Children, and their are many who need this funding for their schooling. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-a-standard-a-z-reference-site-wiki-for-health-related-content
 
 
 Create a standard A-Z reference site/wiki for health-related content
 
 Create a single national wiki for health conditions, treatments and procedures that includes the following areas (as examples): overview, symptoms, causes, diagnostic criteria, treatment options, self-help options, carer advice, personal stories, recent advances, complications, prevention, questions to ask your doctor, references 
 
 The content should be structured so as to allow for easy syndication and service access (i.e. extract any part of the content in XML format for use elsewhere) 
 
 The content should be made freely available to all users 
 
Trusted Content areas should be approved by a volunteer-based 
 medical committee and allow for a mix of clinically trusted content and more personal content...for example, the only people who would be able to edit the description of treatment for diabetes would be authorized clinicians. Changes to this content would be reviewed by an appropriate panel before publication. These authors and panels would be expected to be volunteers. However, patients/carers/citizens could add in personal stories discussing their experiences in alternate treatments. This content would be reviewed as well for appropriateness but would not need to be proven as clinically sound. 
 
 Trusted Content can be shared with international parties as well as national organizations 
 
 Areas should be allowed for the public to add in (moderated) content about their experiences and stories; this content should be clear in that it is not clinically authorized 
 
 Links should be made available to trusted knowledge partners for particular areas 
 
See www.nhs.net for an example of how the UK implemented this idea. (<a class="external-link" href="http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Pages/bodymap.aspx">http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Pages/bodymap.aspx)</a>
 
 
 The government's investment would be to set-up the initial site, collect and review the content and then oversee the ongoing content authorization process to ensure that the content is appropriate for public consumption. The public would be responsible for on-going content creation and one can imagine parterships with leading national organizations such as the NIH, the Mayo Clinic or international partners such as England's National Health Service. 
 
 The internet is a wonderful tool for people to get more informed and engaged in their health but traditional search engines can lead to information that is inaccurate, incomplete or even malicious. 
 Furthermore, there is a lot of time and money being invested in re-creating this content. This basic content should be a national resource that people can work off of to provide better treatment. There should be one trusted place that our citizens can go to to get the information they need that will lead to better health in general (which of course will help in containing overall health costs.) 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/near-real-time-notifications-and-transactions
 
 
 Near real time notifications and transactions
 
 Put an emphasis on data being available quickly - not months after the fact. Use Common Alerting Protocol (CAP), a standard developed in California, and managed by both OASIS and NIEM that allows rapid dissemination of information - imagine torndao warnings that came out 3 weeks after the fact - not useful. 
 CAP allows for geo-locating the inforamtion, and is far more simple than many other standards like XBRL (which are very useful for more in depth, detailed tracking of information and should be use aggressively). 
 CAP can enable a map of alerts that is easy to consume, yet leverages all the data out of more complex formats. NOAA, USGS, FEMA and others have all adopted CAP, and it would be a very good step to see how many jobs were reported daily, how many new contracts, and more in a geospatial format. 
 
 Getting the stimulus out there is key to getting job creation going, and speed of reporting will help hold the various issuers of the stimulus money accountable, and raise the transparency level - if data is reported rapidly, there is much more time for others to partner with those recipients. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/ntia-funds-dispersement
 
 
 NTIA Funds Dispersement
 
 Since all states are eligible for the NTIA Stimulus Funds, I would recommend that the State's receive the funding and subject to Federal Guidelines, disperse the funds to proposals that qualify for the funding. Currently the Unemployment Insurance funds are dispersed in that fashion and has been monitored well for years. The states would have a better "handle" on knowing the projects and their viability. 
 
 The funds would be dispersed in a timely fashion, there would be accountability through a maximum of 50 reporting structures and it would bring transparency down to the lowest level. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/design-design-design
 
 
 Design,Design, Design
 
 Assemble an experienced Design Team. 
 
 I have spent the past 30 years designing, building and deploying custom applications for Corporations and Government Agencies. The applications were based on Open source as well as Microsoft Technology. 
 What is surprising to me is that this dialogue is completely focused on "How". This is surprising because the "What" is not clear. We appear to be talking about how to get to the destination without planning for the trip itself. To actually get to the destination safely, on time and on budget we'll need to know more about what is between us and the destination. 
 Technology has progressed to the point where custom software can be design and developed utilizing one or more "Frame works" and "Web Services". These "Frame Works" and "Web Services" provide support a modular approach to software development. So processes can be built in parallel. 
 So my experience tells me that Design is the critical component. So, the question is how do you assemble an experience Design team? 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/make-room-for-communicating-impact-not-just-tracking-expenditures
 
 
 Make room for communicating IMPACT, not just tracking expenditures.
 
 There are some terrific ideas here. Leaving the outright sales pitches aside, much considered insight is to be found in both the ideas and the comments sections. But nearly all of the focus is on the tracking of expenditures and not on their intended impact. I find this troubling. While the tracking of expenditures is necessary and should be transparent (and is the jist of the question that was asked), it drives toward a "getting my fair share" perspective (evidenced by a number of comments), and away from the broader questions about whether and how the reinvestment leads to real recovery (and transformation), not just rescue. Moreover, many current performance measure are already too output focused (e.g., number of people served). I fear we will wind up with a long list of expenditures ranging from short-term employment to the purchase of paperclips, but not a real understanding of whether and how any of it made a difference. I would love to see a <a class="external-link" href="http://manyeyes.alphaworks.ibm.com/manyeyes/visualizations/743467d0ec2b11dd93ac000255111976/comments/f77e4a02f6cb11ddbf8f000255111976">manyeyes/propublica</a>-style version of impact, using predictive multipliers in combination with survey data and even anecdotal content (I know it's possible to contribute anecdotes right now, but we could turn a few into case studies). I could also imagine a site/service that did time series - investment against economic activity. I understand that the level of complexity we are talking about here boggles the mind - multiple data systems with different levels of proprietary content and multiple output formats tracking inapprorpriate targets. Still, we need try to track impact - even if we don't get it right, we need to do it. And we need to do it on recovery.gov, or the site will simple function as an audit. Not very interesting. Does not inspire confidence. 
 Brookings warns of a similar danger <a class="external-link" href="http://www.brookings.edu/reports/2009/0330_american_recovery_reinvestment_act.aspx">here. </a> 
 
 
 We're already spending. We need to know where it goes, yes. But we also need to know whether it made a difference. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/fraud-reporting-mechanism-kiosks
 
 
 Fraud Reporting mechanism -Kiosks
 
 Update the Hotline concept from a telephone to a stand-alone touchscreen computer terminal so that citizens can use these "Recovery kiosks" to report suspected fraud, waste or abuse. Other Recovery Act info could also be provided on the screen. 
 Place one Hotline Terminal in each federal, state, or municipal building, post office, public library, etc. Contract out the cost to operate, connections via Wi-Fi. Leads could be provided to cognizant Inspectors General for analysis or closure. 
 
 Citizens without internet access or computers may be unaware of specific Recovery Act goals and programs, but may still be aware of waste, fraud and abuse occurring in their local area. These Hotline Kiosks would provide a way to report suspected wrongdoing and could serve as a two-way communications medium. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/government-sponsored-career-interview-fairs
 
 
 Government sponsored Career &amp; Interview Fairs
 
 If there truly are jobs then the large unemployment rates could be reduced if the Gov. could better connect searchers with seekers. 
 
Sponsor regional job fairs for unemployed workers only, probably filtered by aptitude. Then incentivize companies
 to find and hire candidates. 
 
 Reduce the churn on HR departments and job sites will significant accelerate America's return to a more stable unemployment situation. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/an-entirely-different-direction-financially-for-usa
 
 
 an entirely different direction financially for USA
 
 We must close down the Federal Reserve System as it produces only valueless debt dollars. This imaginary money created by "fractional reserve lending" is behind the world banking crisis. 
 The Treasury must IMMEDIATELY begin printing and distributing Lincoln's non-debt Silver Certificate green back dollars to provide all the real money the system needs to survive. This is an historically proven SUCCESSFUL technique for solving artificial financial crisis, such as this one. 
 Kennedy realized this and sought to set us free of the World Banking Cartel with his Executive Order 11110, which caused over 4 Billion of these dollars to be printed and distributed by the Treasury rather than the Fed. If he had lived and continued to print and distribute these Silver Certificates which generate no debt owed to foreign powers and Banks, the Fed would have died a natural death, for people always choose money with real value over money without value. 
 see: 
 http://www.john-f-kennedy.net/executiveorder11110.htm (scroll down near the center of the page) 
 
 Keep in mind that Geithner and all other high official in the Obama regime will be TOTALLY against this idea as they are all beholden to the Banking Families who own the private Federal Reserve Bank. see : 
 http://www.save-a-patriot.org/files/view/whofed.html 
 
 for the results of the 1976 Senate investigation which substantiates this info on the Fed. and remember, printing the green back dollars, will immediately save America the 200 Billions in interest on the national debt we currently pay to the Banking Cartel. Augmenting the Debt with either a Bailout or a Stimulus will of course quadruple the real debt against receipt of electronic and imaginary money. 
 
 
 
 
 
 It is a proven solution that has worked in our past history. It solves the financial crisis entirely in a short period of time, and pays off the National Debt as well, in about 5 years. Lincoln was the originator of the idea, and Kennedy used it as well with his Executive Order 11110. But, his assassination prevented it from coming to full fruition and freeing the natiion from debt once and for all. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/realtime-graphics-in-public-spaces
 
 
 Realtime graphics in public spaces
 
 There are a number of new technologies available that allow for data structures to be viewed in real-time on various displays. Whether in the home, or in Times Square, these kinds of systems can shape information into powerful, easy to understand displays and can help in the public interest. 
 For example, if people can observe the consequences of their behavior in real-time, the behavior typically changes. This is a key element of the new smart meter technology- it will make people more conscious of efficiency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The right combination of data, rendered in this fashion, accessible via the web and other channels can powerfully
shape public opinion and help spread understanding in a more intuitive
fashion. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/middleware-soa-rest-framework-for-data
 
 
 Middleware SOA REST Framework for Data
 
 Implement a middleware framework that enables information
consumers to gain easy access to a variety of information sources under common
and standardized formats. By placing a
re-usable SOA (Services Oriented Architecture) framework on top of traditional
relational data, flat files, and or
hierarchically structures, the complexities of data silos and multiple formats
are eliminated. By layering a framework between
data sources and the web, information seekers can create easily create web
accessible interfaces that mix and match information across and within information
domains. Using this approach and with
minimal effort , data can be applied to web 2.0 and "Mash-up" applications, including automatic delivery of subscribed
 feeds in formats such as XML, RSS, Atom, thus
increasing Recovery.Gov's ability to get 
the right information out to the right constituents using a low cost and highly efficient web delivery model. 
 
 
 
 Recovery.Gov will need to collect, maintain and deliver large
amounts of data and transform this data into consumable and actionable
information. This can be a very difficult
and expensive task, since most organizations have data in a variety of formats
and access methods. The importance of this idea is linked to driving a
re-usable web services information delivery model. Through information architecture patterns
such as REST "Representational State Transfer" Recovery.Gov's information could
be made accessible to the web, and support read once, and publish many model.
 This idea will help Recovery.Gov provide
low cost capabilities that offer quick access to data including turning it into
information streams that can be easily added to web sites across the entire World
Wide Web. Our team has implemented this
type of framework and it provides great business value and information access
across our many business domains. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-collection-extend-whats-already-available
 
 
 Data Collection - Extend what's already available
 
 We have worked with the procurement and grants communities within the federal government for over 20 years providing procurement and grants management systems. There are many systems that collect this
information within the government (e.g., budget, procurement, grants,
financial) and then feed the information to the centralized government systems
(e.g., FPDS-NG, USASpending.gov, FAADS). The issue is that the information gets
watered down as it passes through the systems. The source systems have a superset of the information that the centralized systems require. Additionally, each new centralized system comes with its own XML
schema for the data that it tracks. This results in many "single-purpose"
interfaces to support the various types of reporting. The Integrated
Acquisition Environment (IAE) took steps to address this in 2005 with the
development of the "Standard Transactions Dictionary". The Department of Defense has taken it a step further in their procurement data standards but this has a DoD focus and does not cover the grants community.

If we could build on these standards, however, and add the additional elements for
the grants and financial communities then we could have a complete picture in
one XML schema of any government procurement or grant spend. The vast majority of this information is already captured for transparency in the pre-award process. The model could easily be extended to include the
recipient reporting as well. 
 
 Imagine having the ability to slice and dice the data in any direction for the purposes of your specific analytic need without having to request the data in yet another format. This is achievable if we include
the knowledgeable groups within government as well as the experienced contractors that have been living this for many years. 
 
 The key to success will be to include the groups both inside government and the partners to government who have the best insights into the unique procurement and grants environments and the data that is already available for distribution. 
 
This issue is very important to us so please let us know how we can contribute!
 
 
 
 This is a great forum with lots of ideas (and more continually coming in) for getting the data out to the public; but, in conjunction with thinking about the distribution of the data, we should also be thinking about the collection, validation and accessibility of the source data. The success of any data distribution relies on its data sources. If we don't include that in the dialogue, then we're ignoring the backbone of the infrastructure. 

This is not just an issue for Recovery.gov -- this is our opportunity to "begin with the end in mind" and put into motion the right tools for government transparency to continue and expand even after the economy has recovered!


 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recover-urban-refuse-and-sewage-solids-energy
 
 
 Recover Urban Refuse and Sewage Solids Energy
 
 The US buries hundrds of million tons of urban refuse and sewage solids, On a dry basis, these wastes contain half the value of fossil fuels. By combining the disposal saving with the energy produced, effective systems can create jobs and be highlt profitable. Please allocate funds to technology development project loan guarantees 
 
 Recovering rather than burying our refuse and sewage solids can reduce fossil fuel dependency, air polluion and create sustainable employment 
 Bob McChesney, Carbon Sequestration LLC, 916 294 0696 <a href="mailto:rmccsl@sbcglobal.net">rmccsl@sbcglobal.net</a>, <a href="http://www.carbonsquestrationllc.com">www.carbonsquestrationllc.com</a> 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/controlled-distribution-of-funds-to-individuals-not-banks
 
 
 Controlled Distribution of Funds to Individuals Not Banks 
 
 There needs to be a FEMA like operation to insure that the funds allocated to the home owners Assistance Program actually get to the homeowners who need them. From what I have read on Zillow, the banks are extremely unresponsive to their customers needs, pratice confusing and delay tactics which ultimately lead to foreclosure. Then the bank sells off the property for an incredibility low price (from what I have seen in many areas of south FL) for 40% to 50% of what the house originally sold for. This further depresses the housing market as now the "comps" for anyone who wants to sell are reflecting unrealistic property values which the bank is going to use for the basis of the loan, if they can be bothered to make the loan. So far it seems to me that the banks have used the federal money to bolster their balance sheets (Wells Fargo with record profits) but not just tighting credit, but for all practical purposes eliminating it. Why? Wall Street - you have gotta look good to your stockholders which is how we ended up in this downward spiral thanks to Wall Street and wannabe financial experts who can't figure out the composition of the derivatives that they invested in. Lets get the money out of the banks and into the economy so the multiple can start to work. Alll the banks are doing is sitting on it. FEMA may have had its share of problems, not that Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae haven't, but I've gone through several hurricanes where I felt the did an effective job of getting water, ice, food, generators etc to the storm victims as well as sorely need cash! 
 
 With the funds sitting in the banks, no foreclosures will be avoided and worse if the "stimulus" funds never reach the consumer, nothing gets stimulated and the multipler effect in nonexistant. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/public-research-infrastructure-built-on-open-access-repositories
 
 
 Public Research Infrastructure built on Open Access Repositories
 
 The idea entails the creation of a national public infrastructure for general research built on ICT, which will enhance the currently in place online networks of repositories, such as libraries, applied and pure research, academic publications, general technical information, public federal information databases. 
 Taken the idea of open access to the next level by applying the Berlin Declaration: 
 http://oa.mpg.de/openaccess-berlin/berlindeclaration.html 
 
 
 Currently most of the information in the USA is distributed among varying sources of information, with different standards for access, normalized standards for storage and retrieval and loosely defined guidelines for inter-connectivity. 
 Using the principles and technologies of open access publishing, open source software platforms, and technologies for linked data and in a more specialized from semantic web technologies (e.g. DublinCore Metadata Initiative), a new web of public open data for research can be woven. 
 This web of date will harness the full potential of the internet, the academia, libraries, public data in federal agencies, research data and utilize the power of open source software and platforms to further decision-making and engagement of all stakeholders in all processes relevant to the path of recovery at all conceivable levels, at the same time promoting transparency and accountability. 
 President Obama stressed the need to borrow good ideas from others, we suggest borrowing from the European Union, from the Digital Repository Infrastructure Vision for European Research (DRIVER): 
 http://www.driver-support.eu/index.html 
 http://www.driver-support.eu/linkspubs/organisationlinks.html 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/comparative-analysis-tools-needed-to-look-horizontally-across-projects
 
 
 Comparative analysis tools needed to look horizontally across projects
 
 There will be many ways to slice and dice the data collected and present it in meaningful ways. 
 This idea combines a proven approach with a new twist specifically focused on reporting and analyzing data related to ARRA spending and projects. The idea looks at how comparative data approaches can be used to analyze how money is spent and the impact it has made. Based on the required data elements and the data reported, the comparative analysis would focus on outcomes. For example project dollars spent (vs. project dollars budgeted), project timeline actual (vs. project timeline budgeted), jobs created, nature of project, and location of project (state, county, and municipality). Through simple selection of criteria, oversight organizations, accountable officials, and citizens could view results and compare projects - one against the other to see which are or have performed effectively and those that have not. In addition, you can complete trend analysis across broader categories. 
 This approach has been used effectively at HHS to assist patients access and evaluate their providers (hospitals) and the provider outcomes. <a href="http://www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov/"> www.HospitalCompare.HHS.gov </a> 
 The primary purpose of the Hospital Compare tool is to provide information about the quality of care in hospitals that have volunteered to report their data for five clinical conditions. The tool also provides users with information regarding inpatient hospital payment information and number of Medicare patients treated for certain illnesses. The tool provides users with the ability to search for hospitals by state, county, city, ZIP code or hospital name and compare hospitals against each other based on the quality of care they provide. 
 This public reporting of hospital quality information has been effective in increasing public awareness and understanding health care quality, as well as reform quality improvement activities in hospitals. It also gives health care providers information they can use to improve their quality of care, educate patients, and promote public's ability to make informed decisions when choosing hospital care. The same would be true for reporting recovery spending. 
 
 Ongoing analysis would show appropriate and effective use of funds and identify those (projects, states, counties, municipalities) requiring additional oversight or re-alignment of recovery dollars. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/stream-line-govt-procurement-save-millions
 
 
 Stream Line Govt. Procurement Save Millions
 
 We are a safety equipment manufacturing concern and this week alone have had 15 calls from businesses wanting a price for a govt. Dept of Homeland Security dept. for our product. Why not just go straight to the manufacturer and find out what they will sell direct to the government for instead of putting out all of these bids. Not only will it save the govt. millions of dollars going factory direct, it will save people in my postition the headache of having to repeat the same stuff 15 times. 
 
 This is important because it is fiscally more efficient, quicker and easier than going through 50 bids from 50 different people for the same product. We are the only manufacturer that meets the bid specs. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/accuracy-in-tax-reporting
 
 
 Accuracy in Tax reporting
 
 Use technology to make sure that people are paying their fair share of taxes. As the government is bailing out financial institutions, they could provide information in return. If someone is spending more money through credit cards and loans than they are claiming as income, something may be not being reported accurately. 
 
 Minimizing inaccurate IRS reportings would increase revenue and help pay for the increasing costs associated with the economic recovery. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/will-transparency-policy-reveal-contractor-performance-scores
 
 
 WILL TRANSPARENCY POLICY REVEAL CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE SCORES?
 
 FOIA request seeking the disclosure of government contractors performance scores to be decided by DoD soon under new Obama "transparency" policy. Previously, the Bush Administration bureaucracy stopped disclosure due to the potential embarrassment of poor performing contractors who continue to receive major government contracts, particularly involving Iraq. The rating scores track contractor's performance and provide a record, both positive and negative, on a given contract during a specific period of time. Similar performance rating systems, are used by state governments and openly made available to the public. This FOIA request is directly challenging the "old guard" mentality of the government contracts establishment that is often shielded from public scrutiny. Doesn't the public have the right to know how contractors are performing using billions of our tax dollars? 
 
 This is a real test of the Obama "Openness and Transparency" policy 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/mapping-of-stimulus-projects
 
 
 Mapping of stimulus projects
 
 Map all stimulus projects at Zipcode Lavel. Please vil be able to see what project going on surrending area. Her people should be able to search by zipcode, city, county and state lavel. 
 
 
 - people can see visually where the money spent 
 - People tend to understand when they see somethign on picture such as map., chart etc. 
 - People can see the distrubution of projects 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/repairing-the-home-loan-for-the-economy
 
 
 repairing the home loan for the economy
 
 I believe obama has a good idea about restucturing the loan system, I think people that are having problem keeping their home because of the economy should have the chance to keep the house with a new estimate on what their property is really worth in this economy the tax assessors office should reassess property. and then give the people that have invested their whole lives to get buy a home get the benefit of help rather than a stranger that has no investment reap the benefits. I personally know of two youg couples that had homes in the price rang of half a million or more lose their homes due to the econmy. Those kids should have had the same opportunity to fefinance the house or make a deal with the bank like a stranger did to buy the home short sale they put in on the market for over $500,000.00 it sold for approximately $250,000.00, why could'nt the bank gave those kids the same opportunity 
 to keep their home they both work but the husband worked in construction and lost his job for a whil and then went back to work for less money. they were not lazy people looking for a hand out. give the people a break all the senator if they had to live on $673.00 a month on SSI I would really like to see them have to try and pay rent and utilities and necessities, when necessities are rising as fast as everthing except wages, WAGES are the only thing losing ground in this country unless you happen to be a senator or a bank administrator. that is something else no senators should get cost of living increases when they make over $100,000.00 a year nor bank presidents, nor anyone else in any industry with goverment funds untilthe pooest of people have a livable income. and they limit what you can own as well like cars, how many of you don't have two cars so if one breaks down you have access to another one to get you to the hospital or work which ever the situation may be and why does it matter what it is worth if that is all they have when they get on aid. you have to sell a dependable car to get a junker to qualify? that is a joke I worked for the welfare dept for a while and they make liars out of honest people to get help, they make wifes lie saying their husbands no longer live with them to get any help if they have anything instead of helping them get on their feet again. if you have never been on the other side of that counter you should have to try it before you make those laws so you understand how ridiculous they are half the time no one knows how to implement the new rules and before they get a chance for the lawyers or whoever makes them to tell you how they work they have changed them again. Get some people that understand how the system really works to make some of the laws. the people tht use them everyday and see the way the system is abused by ilegal aliens having a english speaking alien translate for someone that does not to someone that does not speak the language and to give them medical benefits and food stamps for children that were born here illegally because ther parents were here ilegally is crazy no wonder this nation is in the condition it is if the parents are not legal the children shoul'nt be either no matter where they are born. 
 
 
 Because everyone suffers from what is happening when I say everyone I mean the taxpayers of the united states,I have no problem with letting mexican come into the united states they have more rights to be here than the orientals, Vietnamese Germans, Russians that have never worked a day in the united states and yet they are more entitled than the people that were born and raised here, the government is bringing them in at an astounding rate I assume, that it is all political reasons but that certainly does not help our economy and it makes the people that their family have been here for a couple hundred of years and pay taxes angry, especially when they have projects like W&gt;A&gt;I&gt;V&gt;E 
 for aliens brought in by our government and not give us the same respect and money for education why is that? why do they give foreigners more help than the citizens that pay the money they use to implement those plans. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/recovery.gov
 
 
 Recovery.gov
 
 The Recovery.gov is an excellent web site and the financial and activity report is a good start, however we need more than just numbers. We need to know where the $$ is going and for what purpose. 
 
 I am not so sure the system is as important as the collection of information and recovery.gov is an excellent start. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/businesses
 
 
 businesses
 
 in my personal opinion I think the US of A should export more goods and import less, if you think this makes no sence, I think the main gears are exports of goods. 
 where do you get all the money to buy so many imports from? exports shiuld generate alots of good jobs, think about and after thinking take the proper action 
 
 Because this is the true recovery of the damaged american economy, all the american monies have gone abroad and there is no more or is it? 
 The fact is there is no jobs, production of goods for exports will create new jobs I emphasize, thank you for your attention, hoppin being opf service to my country, thank you again 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-revenue-sharing
 
 
 data revenue sharing
 
 The idea is to establish 
accountability for multimedia publishers within the mobile space. Upon 
establishment, the Association will then monitor, collect and distribute data 
revenue on behalf of its members. 
 <a class="external-link" href="http://www.datarevenue.org/datarevenue/LOCPetitionforRulemaking.htm">Petitions for Rulemaking have been submitted to the Library of Congress's Copyright Royalty Board and the FCC.</a> 
 
 This is an important step forward for the creative community. The Internet was a missed opportunity for the creative community to establish a statutory rate early on for all multimedia downloads. We are at a similar benchmark moment with data. Now is the time to establish a statutory rate as we feel the future for multimedia is in data infrastruture, data applications nd data products. These events will greatly help reinstate the growth potential for the creative community that produces and publishes multimedia products. Multimedia messaging, (mms) is very new, however as the wireless industry builds their infrastructure it should allow for richer and richer content to be exchanged mobile2mobile, consumer2consumer and otherwise. There should be rules and regulations in place in anticipation of these events specific to data revenue sharing. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/links
 
 
 Links
 
 After you have decided on your format, etc. Post a link on the common website home pages so people can easily access updated info from you. 
 
 Make it easily accessible for the common Joe Computer challenged person such as myself. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/federal-approval-for-infrastruture-web-portal
 
 
 Federal Approval for Infrastruture Web Portal
 
 Information Systems (IS) is critical to the success of many types of organizations. 
 The Federal, State and Local Governments need to follow the layers of project methodology to keep the current IS mission, on time, cost effective and successful. 
 
 Here are just a few layers of my ideas: 
 
 The first layer, link the financial budgets (given to state/local govern) onto a secure web portal. On this portal Federal Reserve would give state and local government access to their fiscal year budget. This would be a deeper level of financial transparancy different that what the American people see on recovery.gov. 
 
 Second Layer, the need for Financial Approval by Federal Government, on all project funding to micro manage the funding. Use software that would allow each agencies use of shared web portal. Within this portal database a description/justification of the (local/state) project (i.e. Request for Proposal, RFP) would have to be auditor approved. 
 
 At this point, Federal Government would utilize several proactive (job creation) auditors using policy guidelines on approval/disapproval of vendors and projects. This would eliminate wasteful spending on vendors that tend to be on the corrupt side. Also, have list of vendors that have done ethical work and would be on our list during bid process. 
 
 For example, Federal Courthouse in Rockford, IL; it would be neat to use this premise as a pilot program to see if we can stay on budget using this web portal and federal project approval methodology. 
 
 I'm a bit of a cost effective micro project manager but, at this point in the economy we need to find effective ways to get infrastructure projects done ethically. 
 
 Our mayor's motto: Excellent Everytime! 
 
 
 We need to be proactive and aware of wasteful and fraudulent actions within the state and local government's level of authority. 
 By using a Federal, State and Local web portal we can monitor, approve/disapprove projects according to the governments policy guideline. 
 By using this tool we can begin to eliminate corrupt vendors from our infrastructure projects. 
 Look at Illinois, state and local governments should be on probation for all the wasteful spending of the past 8 years. 
 We cannot afford to waste tax payer's dollars. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/establish-a-network-for-alternative-medicine-collages
 
 
 Establish a Network for Alternative Medicine Collages
 
 I would suggest establishing a network with Naturopathic and Chiropractic Colleges across the country, along with their doctors, to assess the needs of these particular medical communities and those they would be able to serve. 
 Give this network connection and establishment with other medical communties and the public at large, to work in conjuntion with the department of Health Resources and Services Administration. 
 
 For far too long these doctors and clinicians have been out of the government loop, whether it be in the areas of insurance coverage or acceptance in the broader community of hospitals and Allopathic Physicians. 
 Assessment could be encouraged about the needs for hospital grants to allow for internship programs and for college loan grant or debt forgiveness, through placement commitments in local communties lacking family care physicians accessability. 
 If this network had access to other networks with hospitals and government programs for such and in general with local medical communities, funding could be directed to those localities most in need, with critical shortages of Family Physicians and other medical practitioners. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/risk-and-fraud-analysis
 
 
 Risk and Fraud Analysis
 
 The Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board is considering all options for open-source research, fund tracking, and predictive analysis tools. Can you please provide solution ideas for the following: 
 Open-Source Research - Currently, the private sector is using open-source information as a cornerstone of its risk-based strategies (e.g., only pulling from public databases, news sources, internet sites, etc.). The RATB should employ these tools to allow for transparency among all recipients. 
 Funds Tracking - Never before has there been such a huge data set (Recovery Funds) so conspicuously labeled for accountability. Tools that will help the public see the funding all the way down to the final user would be a great addition for transparency. 
 Predictive Analytics - We need to do what we can to prevent fraud before it happens . There are very comprehensive tools that focus on complex data streams using visualization for risk-based targeting of potential fraud. These tools are commonly used among the credit card, banking and credit bureau industries. 
 
 We are looking for the best solutions available to provide the public the best open and transparent oversight of Recovery Act funds. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/the-success-of-recovery-depends-upon-collaboration
 
 
 The Success Of Recovery Depends Upon Collaboration
 
 
 
 The
unprecedented challenge of recovery and its intergovernmental nature requires an unprecedented shift in past patterns of behavior at all levels of
government. To find the new patterns
that will succeed, every one of the traditional concerns of the Federal government needs to
be turned on its head: 
 Instead of the development of the Recovery program all by itself, the Federal government should look to state/local
governments for assistance in developing the regulations, reporting/data
formats, procedures and even auditing techniques for the recovery program. This
would almost be something like Wikipedia for the regulations/procedures
relating to each part of the program, with a group of "volunteers" from all
levels of government helping to edit and moderate all of these
contributions. The Federal government
might even find that state/local governments will come up with more precise and
tougher regulations than they would dare ask on their own. Most members of
the public realize that the data on the Internet, while voluminous, is not
always 100% accurate when first published. 
While the public may not fully "understand the context" of the recovery program
(as one Federal official put it), they do understand the context of the
Internet - that it is a dynamic and participative medium. So as quickly as possible, not at some time
in the future, the site should be open for public input, photos of what citizens
see as recovery successes and failures, etc. When final
regulations/procedures are issued, there are bound to be additional questions.
So recovery.gov needs to have a place where state/local officials can post
questions - and receive answers - with regard to each provision. This would be
shared with the whole community of state/local officials, so Federal agencies
don't need to answer the same questions over and over again, and also that
state/local agencies work off of a common understanding of the answers. As part of their
own responsibility to their constituents, state and local governments will want
to maintain their own databases of recovery projects. Recognizing this fact,
but also the need for the recovery.gov to be a central portal for this
information, the IT staffs of the Federal, state and local governments should
develop a standard for the exchange of this information and reporting about
recovery projects. There have been some previous examples of such
intergovernmental cooperation in developing data exchange standards, such as
criminal justice data sharing. XML and
similar Internet standards are common outside of the government and made
mashups so widespread on the web. There are just not enough inspectors to ensure that money will not be
wasted. Instead, the state/local
governments themselves as well as the general public should be used as the
Federal government's eyes and ears. A
state/local agency may not publish information about its own waste, but if it
feels it is playing by the rules, it might report some other government's wasteful
use of recovery funds. And so will the
public. But the web also offers the
accused a chance to respond. The whole
collaborative process can take on valuable aspects of self-policing. While it is not perfect, this may well
identify more problems than the likely small corps of Federal inspectors could
uncover alone. Finally, there is a difference between abuse and mediocrity. So the Recovery program on the web should also
encourage the sharing of best
practices. This would accelerate the
progress of the economic recovery by quickly propagating the most effective
approaches around the country. 
 The answer is not a big, lengthy Federal IT system
that is intended to ensure no mistake ever happens. That utopian solution will likely arrive
after the recovery is over. Instead,
Internet-based collaboration among all the governments and involved citizens -
quick, inclusive, perhaps not ensured of perfection at the start - will be the
key to a successful recovery program. 
 
 
 
 Going
beyond the question as to how best to use the Internet for reporting and the
like, to add to President's challenge, in the "real world", the implementation
of the recovery program depends upon the work of thousands of state and local
governmental agencies. So if it is to
succeed, the Obama administration needs to facilitate cooperation and
collaboration among Federal, state and local agencies in the planning,
monitoring and even the administration of ARRA. 
 Fortunately,
the shared common communications network - the Internet - between all of these
governments and the collaborative technology that operates on top of that
network make it possible for the recovery program to work in a way that was not
possible in the past. This has the potential to optimize both the reporting and data side of the recovery program, as well as its implementation. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-visualization-portability
 
 
 Data Visualization Portability
 
 Data visualizations are the combination of three things - the underlying data, the visual tool or graphic used to portray it, and the document or Web site in which it is ensconced. While sometimes this is desirable, for government transparency and information sharing purposes, it severely limits the ability of citizens, interest groups, journalists, and others to understand and/or re-interpret information. 
 Instead, tools and software should be used that loosely bind information to the visualization being used and the media being used to convey it. 
 
 In an information economy, we are also increasingly driven by an information-managed government - from the rules about public disclosure to the transparency of financial transactions entered into by private enterprises. When the people, the press, and the other branches of government cannot extract the data needed to understand their world, that information will in some cases be considered "biased" or tainted simply because it is not easily discernable. 
 Government is not transparent until its data is. Data is not transparent until it can be used and re-used at the discretion of its consumer - not just its producer. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/added-incentives-for-innovation-and-sustained-benefits
 
 
 Added incentives for Innovation and Sustained Benefits
 
 In my stimulus dealings with various Federal, State, and Local Government leaders there appears to be 2 distinct schools of thought emerging. On the one hand are those agencies who view ARRA as a short term tactical fix to numerous funding challenges associated with significant budget deficits. On the other hand is the thinking which looks to use stimulus dollars as the vehicle to transform existing programs to provide an even greater level of public service to citizens, businesses and constituents alike. 
 Can we provide an additional financial incentive to those States who clearly demonstrate such creative thinking and are laying a strategic infrastructure for future interactions between State and Federal Government agencies? 
 
 Although the ARRA has a prescribed timeline with defined start and finish points, the true value of this program will be measured by the results it drives in how government serves each of us. Incenting a more strategic application of funds will drive the behavior and outcomes we all desire. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-of-an-apm-solution-like-ca-wily
 
 
 Use of an APM solution like CA/Wily
 
 Since this is a web site that will be used by everyone from net novice to net savvy a priority should be understanding the end user experience when visiting the web site as well being able proactively and predictably see trouble or potential trouble before the enduser does. If I run into problems on a site twice in a row I typically dont go back. If we are to be truly transparent you need people to come to this site and use it often. 
 
 Because your website it the face on your business and if this site performs badly, is it because it has technical problems or is it the government doesnt really want to be transparent. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/mensaje-semanal-obama-a-nacion-con-subtitulos-en-espanol
 
 
 MENSAJE SEMANAL OBAMA A NACION CON SUBTITULOS EN ESPAÑOL
 
 HAY MUCHA GENTE EN EL MUNDO INTERESADA EN CONOCER EL PENSAMIENTO DE OBAMA. EL ESPAÑOL ES UNA LENGUA MUY USADA EN EL MUNDO Y EN TODO EL CONTINENTE AMERICANO. 
 
 PARA QUE OTRAS GENTES DE OTROS PAISES PUEDAN CONOCER DIRECTAMENTE EL PENSAMIENTO DEL PRESIDENTE OBAMA A TRAVES DE INTERNET, SIN PASAR POR LOS FILTROS QUE PONEN LOS GOBIERNOS O LA PRENSA ESCRITA. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/usac-funding-and-audits
 
 
 USAC funding and audits
 
 I have 2 ideas related to USAC. 
 1. Let's increase the funding to area to assist in the area of medical advances. There is a BIG hole in the ideas going on for spending in telemedicine. I have seen a lot of great money being spend on equipment for expanding healthcare in rurual areas. It's GREAT! One big issue: The network in these areas can not support the equipment. The programs to help enable CT Scans, X-rays, and etc to be examined by a doctor out of the area is great! Too bad the clinic won't be able to pay the monthly bill to afford the circuit to support it. 
 2. There is a way to reduce spending at the FCC and Rural Health care to get the funds for the first point. The money, time and effort to submit forms for government healthcare sites is silly. Why should the Indian Health services or any other health care clinic have to go back and resubmit paperwork ever again? It's a health care site, it's rurual. Done, end of story. Instead, everytime the clinic needs a different carrier or upgrade the circuit go to resubmit. AND auditing? Why, for what? Where is the monies going to get spend? It's health care and it's getting paid to the telco. It's not the clinic get the money back from the telco. NOPE, it stays in the pot to go to "telco". What a weird waste of resources. 
 
 Health care in rurual locations is necessary. There are some many locations where people live 50 to 200 miles from a hospital. These clinics are all they have. Let's spend the monies wisely. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/consolidate-data-collection-processes-enhance-content-functionality-vis
 
 
 Consolidate data collection processes; enhance content, functionality &amp; vis
 
 View the recovery.gov effort as not just a taxpayer accountability function but as a hands-on decision support tool for government project managers; an accounting and budgeting tool for government financial managers; a research tool for individuals, businesses, organizations and agencies seeking funds; a policy-making tool for members of Congress. Integrate recovery.gov data collection and dissemination with usaspending.gov as called for in Peter Orszag's OMB Memo M-09-15. The key to successful data collection will be the "key" of each data record. Unless data from multiple sources contains properly formatted indexed keys, the data will remain in separate un-relatable data stores and the analysis that all users desire will be impossible. The key to being able to link expenditure data with the obligation data is having common fields as keys in each record. The expenditure records must contain the agencyid, piid, mod in the same format etc. or we'll never be able to match everything up. The FAADS system needs a record ID to link to expenditures. The TAS/program source, which seems to be where the government is heading, might not be sufficient to tie these transactions together. Include DUNS keys to all vendor and recipient records. Add POP location keys and zip codes to all places. Standardize recovery.gov data fields as closely as possible with usaspending.gov and FPDS-NG data. Report every transaction, not just consolidated transactions. $750 billion is about 1.5 years' worth of contract data or half a year's worth of contract and grant data combined. Quite manageable and scalable with properly designed data collection and reporting systems like <a href="http://www.usaspending.org/"> www.usaspending.org </a>. Institute strict validation routines on reported data that insure the TAS will be reported in every transaction record, not just in recovery records. Create a separate field for the TAS - keep the FPDS Description of Requirement field for program descriptions. Flag all recovery transactions separately in a logical field. Include full program source/TAS codes for every recovery obligation and expenditure record to facilitate reconciliation with other agency budget, obligation and expenditure records. Fulfill terms of FFATA -- feed expenditure data from agency core financial systems weekly to an intermediate data store where usaspending.gov &amp; recovery.gov obligations, and budget data can be reconciled with expenditures. To the extent feasible require agencies to use contract writing systems certified compliant with FPDS-NG v. 1.3. Institute sub-award reporting from award recipients down to the nth tier with enough links to tie directly to the usaspending.gov and recovery.gov data. Have recipients report through a system like Orion Microsystems or an enhanced <a href="http://www.esrs.gov/"> www.esrs.gov </a> , provide weekly feeds of core data fields from this system to an intermediate data store for reconciliation with obligation and budget records. Reserve final recipient payments until their data is fully reported and reconciled. Eliminate redundant grant data processing functions - standardize on either FAADS and FAADS+. Improve quality and timeliness of grant, assistance &amp; loan reporting. 
 
 Will lead to fuller taxpayer accountability; better program management, more accurate account reconciliation. Increased visibility into project execution will improve our understanding of what has worked, which projects should be renewed, which projects should be shut down. Save cost, reduce errors &amp; confusion by eliminating redundant data processing &amp; dissemination efforts. Automated expenditure data feeds from core accounting systems will reduce oversight intrusiveness and simultaneously enhance management capabilities. Leverages a sophisticated decision support &amp; market research tool out of the same investment in transparency and taxpayer accountability. Fulfills requirements of FFATA. No time to lose -- many elements already exist off the shelf &amp; are ready to go. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-downloads
 
 
 Data Downloads
 
 Its nice to have data on the web but the ability to download individual data sets that can be customized, like Census data, would be useful for empirical analysis. 
 
 Fraud analysis requires use of various statistical analyses that are defined out of hypothetical explorations of the researcher rather than the web master. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/broaden-continue-the-discussion
 
 
 Broaden &amp; continue the discussion
 
 This dialog is a great idea, as are the willingness to open up the discussion for broad access, the presumed commitment to devote resources to identifying and following up on better ideas with clear benefit, and the use of web tools for making it happen. 
 There is a continuing need for this collaboration, not only for the Recovery program, but across the federal government as a whole, including especially the government's would-be program for managing information and technology across the federal enterprise. 
 Our new federal CIO should take the initiative to adopt this approach as a strategy for creating an effective government-wide program, broaden the dialog, continue the discussion for at least the next six months, and explicitly find and devote resources monitoring the dialog to find and follow up on ideas with important benefits for the government that in many cases will actually pay for themselves. 
 
 Federal programs could produce far better results, on a much more cost-effective and efficient basis, if they better leveraged information and technology. And way too many players, including stovepiped government activities and way-too-comfortable contractors, perpetuate this wasteful status quo. An ongoing collaborative effort of this kind, coupled with careful and focused follow-up by government, could bring the real change we need. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/what-should-be-reported-and-whats-needed-to-do-so-1
 
 
 What should be reported and what's needed to do so?
 
 There are a variety of
leading and lagging economic indicators used to measure the health
and well-being of our Nation's economy. The leading indicators such
as the stock market tend to tilt upward long before citizens see
marked improvements to their personal situations. A rising stock
market means nothing to the person who's struggling to make a
mortgage payment or find a job. To banks and business owners this is
a prime indicator that boosts confidence and spurs additional
spending and growth - creating jobs and opportunities for a lot of
citizens. Unemployment and consumer spending are some of the
metrics thought to be lagging indicators. As jobs become available
more folks find work as a result of increased confidence from banks
and businesses. As a result consumer spending usually increases. The
truth about the economy lies somewhere in between the leading and
lagging indicators and can be measured through the identification of
relevant correlations. The focus should be on identification
of data and tools available to measure the effects of spending on the
economy. 
 
 A data warehouse should be
developed that is fast, flexible, robust, scalable AND has a low
total cost of ownership. It should not only enable centralized
collection of data but facilitate robust analytics and reporting
required to ensure openness and transparency. 
 
 Among the data inputs
should include: 
 ARRA allocations and
expenditures at a fine grained level, by program, industry, region,
etc Mash-ups of publicly
available data [Unemployment, consumer spending, foreclosure rates,
housing starts, other demographic information that can be directly
correlated to funds spent on specific programs or locales] 
 
 
 Among the data outputs
should include: 
 Visualizations to provide
intuitive understanding of the economic situations and corresponding
indicators Ad-hoc capabilities to run
predictive models and analysis to understand how making changes to $$
allocations for various programs or projects may impact regions
differently and tune these models and allocations as baseline data
becomes available Web 2.0 and feeds to
enable citizen created-mashups 
<a class="external-link" href="http://www.johnstonmclamb.com/Solutions/recoveryAct2009.aspx">http://www.johnstonmclamb.com/Solutions/recoveryAct2009.aspx</a>
 
 
 
 Data Warehousing is an
important component of the solution. Tracking the funds and spending
is a major component of the solution but it means nothing without an
understanding of the effects of dollars spent. The key is creating
the ability to measure tangible results associated with funds spent,
which means there is a need to correlate monies spent spent with
results. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/business-intelligence
 
 
 Business Intelligence
 
 IDEA: Standardization of design/implementation of Business Intelligence/Data Warehousing Systems along with Storage Technology/Online Transaction Processing (OLTP) Technology Refresh Incorporation 
 The need for Business Intelligence/Data Warehousing. In today's highly uncertain and extremely competitive world, the timeliness of an enterprise's information, as well as the integrity of such data from which critical information is derived, can mean the difference between profit and loss or even an enterprise's survival. In sales analyses and marketing trends, credit card churn analysis , Insurance fraud analysis , call record analysis (landline and cellular call record analysis) , logistics management and other critical needs, the call for designing and implementing systems robust and scalable to withstand the processing of vast amounts of data and to do analyses in real time are vital. Therefore, the idea I have to 1.) Standardize on a methodology that includes multiple steps: business case justification, enterprise evaluation (architecture and data stores), Project Planning (based on standardized PMBOK principles), complete requirements definition, data analysis, meta data repository design, ETL design, data mining and phased deployment; 2.) Ensure storage technology and consequent state-of-the-art robust transaction processing are routinely incorporated into the designs and implementations of such systems. There is a constant improvement in the size of storage, now routinely in the terabyte arena - the needs exist constantly to improve on the software's design to process transactions quickly in the newly evolved vast relational database structures. 
 
 
 In today's highly uncertain and extremely competitive world, the timeliness of an enterprise's information, as well as the integrity of such data from which critical information is derived, can mean the difference between profit and loss or even an enterprise's survival. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/just-stop-1
 
 
 Just stop
 
 Cease all the bailouts, spending by the Federal Government and everything else that's being illegally done by the Federal Reserve. 
 
 Because if you don't just s-t-o-p, we will well and truly be screwed. 
 Any idiot knows that you cannot borrow and spend your way out of debt. 
 The marginal utility of debt is negative and every dollar printed will force us deeper into depression. 
 Just stop - please. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/simply-tell-us-what-we-can-and-cannot-do-with-arra
 
 
 Simply tell us what we can (and cannot) do with ARRA $$ 
 
 I understand the need for accountability &amp; transparency and agree with the need for these strict stipulations. 
 However, as was learned in a survey last week of 662 US Public Sector IT professionals (FED, State, Local, K-12, higher ED., and Healthcare were all represented) by a top provider of IT to the government: 
 79% said "they don't have enough visibility or are only somewhat aware of the impact and flow of ARRA funds on their organizations" 78% said "ARRA-related information is non-existent, too generic, or not understandable; and that tailored tools are needed to better navigate the recovery package". See link below for full coverage 
 http://content.dell.com/us/en/corp/d/press-releases/2009-04-30-StimulusSurvey.aspx 
 
 Because when the "boss" tells us SPECIFICALLY what he wants (what must be accomplished) for the money, this nation's IT community gets the job done. Ex.) E-Rate in K-12. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/maximizing-competition-oversight-and-accountability-for-arra-funds
 
 
 Maximizing Competition, Oversight, and Accountability for ARRA Funds
 
 State departments of transportation are ultimately responsible for the proper oversight of federal funds passing to local governments for road construction projects. Some do a good job in their oversight, but most have their own problems to deal with and don't give this area the proper attention required. There are several systems that have been developed in the last few years that focus on the local government market. For example, AASHTO's contractor (Info Tech) has developed web-based electronic systems comparable to those deployed in the state DOTs that are available as hosted applications (SaaS) and at price points affordable by even the smallest agencies. Its' Appia ® software seamlessly interfaces with the state's electronic bidding system, so that local bidding opportunities get the widest possible distribution, leveling the playing field and resulting in lower prices for the agency. It also includes a pre-award analysis function that helps spot collusive behavior. Since it's web-based, its' extensive project reports are readily available to the state DOT for transmittal to FHWA and for meeting ARRA reporting requirements. State DOTs should be strongly encouraged to maximize this opportunity to use a small amount of their Stimulus dollars to fund their local government oversight programs. 
 
 The Office of Management and Budget's guidance on ARRA includes requirements "to meet crucial accountability objectives," such as obtaining maximum practicable competition, maximizing opportunities for small businesses to compete for contracts, ensuring timely award and expenditure of dollars, minimizing cost overruns and improper payments and collecting contractor performance evaluations. Key elements of the program are Discipline - creating efficient, repeatable processes; Transparency - providing equal access to all competitors; and Accountability - spending funds wisely and achieving the goal of putting people back to work as quickly as possible. The state departments of transportation picture is 'bright' because their American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) developed systems are in place and up to date in the vast majority of these agencies. Their electronic bidding system (Bid Express) maximizes competition and provides opportunities for minority contractors, their Trns*port construction management system provides a complete electronic audit trail of the expenditure of funds, and their collusion detection system is capable of identifying unscrupulous contractors. 
 However, the local government agency picture is 'not so bright.' Construction processes are primarily paper-based and weaknesses are apparent in cost estimation (lack of discipline), contractor change orders &amp; timely payments, and personnel and equipment tracking, making audits and accountability extremely difficult. In fact, FHWA has made Local Program Administration its' number 1 priority area for national review by its' field offices. In normal years, $6-$8 Billion goes to local roads programs, but the Stimulus Package will more than double this allocation. Unless effective oversight is put in place, waste, fraud and abuse are inevitable! 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/what-do-we-mean-by-transparancy
 
 
 what do we mean by transparancy?
 
 


 When we ask, "What is transparancy?", t 
 he real question is what
level of granularity should be used to track and report allocation
and usage of funds? 
 Does every
 organization that is involved in the process need to identify their
 level of involvement for every amount of funding? Does traceability
 include tracking subcontracted labor? Down to the resource level? Should firms
 receiving funds be required to disclose labor categories [i.e. U.S.
 labor versus foreign, offshore or H-1B/B-1/L-1 labor] Should firms
 receiving funds be required to disclose sourcing of supplies and
 materials? [ Pipe Made in India Incenses Illinois Town , 
 <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/16/business/economy/16pipe.html?partner=MOREOVERNEWS&amp;ei=5040">http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/16/business/economy/16pipe.html?partner=MOREOVERNEWS&amp;ei=5040</a> ] 
 If the answer is, 'yes'
to any of these or similar questions, all funding needs to be tracked
to its lowest level. At what point does the need for transparency
begin to 
 Infringe on
 Corporate Privacy? Negatively impact an
 organizations competitive edge? Divert support to
 required overhead and away from the initial intent/purpose of funds? 
 In addition, should
Recovery.gov be enabled to allow individuals to report abuse of
allocated Recovery Act funds in addition to, or instead of, existing
mechanisms? 
 A clear need raised by
these questions is the need for Federal guidance and policy with
respect to information privacy. Existing federal guidelines and
policy provide limited direction with respect to State and Local
governments. Establishing an overarching guideline for each local
jurisdiction will appropriately distribute responsibility to the
state and local level. 
 
 There is a great deal of
confusion surrounding this term with regards to the Stimulus package
and Recovery.Gov. A consistent and complete definition of this term
must be created and shared before it can be effectively used. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/the-real-issue-of-lack-of-credit
 
 
 The real issue of lack of credit
 
 Putting more money out to loan doesn't stimulate the economy but prolongs the inevitable. The reason that we are in this mess is because of the loose credit in the first place. Those that lived within their means don't have a problem. Those that didn't are obviously hurting. But to give them more money doesn't curb there problem. This is the same as giving more drugs to a drug addict! 
 The solution is to have these outstanding loans called in. The money brought in would replenish the credit that the banks could give out. And to be fair to all the loan process should allow everyone to refinance their loans at a reasonable rate set for today situation. Some people would still default but many would be able to hang onto their realestate and not burden the banks with property that isn't maintained. The loan agencies aren't interested in property only money. Money if fluid and be moved where a house can't. The loses that the loans industry would enentually take would be a lot less that the bail out money that they would be getting. This bailout money is dependent on a strong economy. An economy that is burden in debt will never be strong.The only way out is to absorb the loss, reestablish a sound loan system, call in the debt for what its worth and go on with business. Adding another layer of debt doesn't solve the problem. 
 
 This is not an idea its the sound principals that our founding fathers built this great nation from. Somehow modern society has lose this recipe. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/safety-and-health-concerns-requirements-during-the-fund-distribution
 
 
 Safety and health concerns, requirements during the fund distribution.
 
 Ensure that all recipients of the Recovery funds ensure that all activites when performed are done in a safe and healthy manner. All applicable State, Federal or Local Municipality EHS codes must be adhered to. Any violation can and should result in funds being held or not distributed. 
 There should be moneys set aside within the funding to allow recipients to earmark funding for their in house or contracted with EHS professionals. 
 
 So as to ensure a safe and healthy working environment and to hold State, County and Private entities responsible for the safey and well being of their employees being used during these recovery procedures. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/data-centric-management-principles-for-recovery.org
 
 
 Data-centric Management Principles for Recovery.org
 
 Achieving full
transparency and accountability for Recovery act stimulus funds is a delicate
data driven effort that requires careful deliberate implementation. To accomplish the goals of this initiative--to
collect and present data associated with stimulus funding in order to make it
easy and useful for anyone to track the funds and impact of recovery, all in a
transparent and collaborative fashion--requires the right technology, processes,
and approach to ensure the successful data sharing and collaborative partnership between public and private
sector necessary for national economic recovery. 
 
 Achieving full
transparency and accountability for Recovery act stimulus funds is a delicate
data driven effort that requires careful deliberate implementation. To accomplish the goals of this initiative--to
collect and present data associated with stimulus funding in order to make it
easy and useful for anyone to track the funds and impact of recovery, all in a
transparent and collaborative fashion--requires the right technology, processes,
and approach as part of a collaborative partnership between public and private
sector. 
 
 The following six
data-centric principles establish a foundation of transparency and
collaboration necessary to forge a private/public sector partnership that
achieves the goals of the historic Economic Recovery Act. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following six
data-centric principles establish the foundation of transparency and
collaboration needed to forge a private/public sector partnership that
achieves the goals of the historic Economic Recovery Act. 
 
 In short, the solution for
recovery.gov requires that Recovery Data be: 
 
 1. Easily Collectible. Given the
breadth of purposes for stimulus funds and the number of government agencies,
partners, vendors, organizations and individuals involved, to ensure successful rapid delivery of a data
management solution, recovery.gov must implement a solution that allows
for the automated collection, reporting, and organization of data from the
widest range sources (e.g., as systems, databases, mainframes, flat files),
interfaces (e.g., web-services, EDI) and
formats (Excel, XML) possible without costly custom coding or integration. Additionally, cloud hosted services could provide
an effective scalable cost competitive approach for handling source data files
coming from hundreds or even thousands of organizations for loading into
persistent storage areas such as Operational Data Stores, Enterprise Data
Warehouses, or Data Marts or staging areas. 
In short, given today's technology, connectivity and handling of data in
various existing data sources and formats should not be an impediment for
organizations providing data to recovery.gov. 
 
 2. High Quality. As learned by
hundreds of companies and organizations over the last decade, accessibility of data
is not enough. Data must be consistent,
complete, and clean (error free) to be useful. 
While practically "perfect data" does not exist, the Recovery
Team can ensure Recovery Data remains meaningful through development of a data
governance program that establishes standards and accountability for
maintaining effective data quality for submitted data, and implementation
supporting automated tools and processes that will help identify and resolve
data quality issues in collaboration with data providers and stakeholders on an
ongoing basis. 
 
 3. Presentation
Agnostic. Integration costs and associated code
maintenance are rapidly becoming one of the most expensive aspects of data
system maintenance. To ensure the
recovery.gov solution remains low maintenance and low cost, the Recovery Team
needs a solution that makes Recovery Data easy to access, analyze and use. Consistent with industry best practices,
data should be separated (e.g. via a data warehouse or data marts) and managed
independent of presentation and application logic. This separation when coupled with standard
integration interfaces should allow Recovery Data to be accessed and used by a
wide range of tools, systems and technologies. 
For example, the solution could support presentation of canned reports
via the recovery.org site, provide standard web search interfaces, integrate
with business intelligence tools for reports and trend analysis, and
interoperate with data mining tools to support robust monitoring by regulators
and law enforcement, to name a few. 
 
 4. Web Accessible /
Mashable. The Recovery Team can provide significant
capabilities at minimal cost by harnessing the power of the private
sector. As proven by recent Internet
developments, Web 2.0 sites have already proven the significant advantages of open
access to data sources. By providing
data feeds that make Recovery information accessible and retrievable by
external web-services, the Recovery team can harness the creative power of the
private sector by allowing developers to create a host of value-added
applications. Just as internet site
zillow.com has created a valuable service by combining existing public records,
Real Estate information, and Microsoft map data, enterprising individuals and
organizations in both the public and private sector will be able to harness
recovery data to create applications that track the usage of government funds
and assess the impact of recovery efforts, thereby providing tremendous value
at minimal cost to the Recovery Team. 
 
 5. Highly Reliable,
Always Available. Few things pose a greater risk to the appearance and
promise of transparency than downtime or other technical issues that prevent
interested parties from consistently and reliably accessing Recovery Data. While superficially, system outages, even for
short periods, may seem innocuous, in the global court of public opinion, such
outages can lead to a perceived lack of openness, or even incompetence. To prevent such misperceptions, and ensure
consistent access to government data, the Recovery Team must provide a highly
available environment proven capable of scaling to provide uninterrupted
support for all of recovery.gov's data collection and dissemination
efforts. Additionally, for web applications
to work, developers creating mashable sites will require similar consistent
always-on real-time access to Recovery Data. 
 
 6. Verifiable and
Auditable. Beyond effective management and accessibility of
data, ensuring that economic recovery funds are appropriately spent requires
that data consumers (such as regulators, the media, and law enforcement) be
able to determine where the data originated, who provided it, and when it was
received. By implementing metadata
management tools that leverage existing metadata from systems submitting data,
the recovery team can simplify data tracking by automating much of this
typically onerous but highly critical regulatory process. 
 
 About Informatica 
 
 Informatica is a leading
provider of enterprise data integration software and services. With Informatica, organizations can gain
greater business value by integrating all their information assets from across
the enterprise. Used by hundreds of successful very large organizations worldwide, Informatica's data integration platform combines industry leading tools with the unmatched ease of use needed to rapidly address the full range of organizations' data integration challenges. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/open-accessible-interoperable-raw-data
 
 
 Open, Accessible, Interoperable Raw Data
 
 Publish as much raw data as possible using open, self-describing, interoperable standards such a RDF [1]. 
 The World Wide Web Consortium has a study group drafting a report on improving access to government through the Web. A draft [2] of this report is available now; the final report is expected before the end of May. 
 [1] http://www.w3.org/RDF/ [2] http://www.w3.org/TR/egov-improving/ 
 
 By publishing raw data, the collective talents and creativity of citizens on the Web will produce more views and analyses than any single entity could conceive -- or fund. The raw data, with explicit links to understand its semantics, will allow independent verification of others' analyses. 
 It is vital that all material be published in forms accessible to all. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/create-a-gis-spatial-view-that-stitches-local-layers-into-a-national-layer
 
 
 Create a GIS Spatial View that stitches local layers into a national layer
 
 Create a GIS Spatial View that stitches local layers into a national layer. 
 This would allow a person to view local data from local agencies simillarly to a quilted blanket. You would just have to add one thing to your map like land parcels or streets and internally the spatial view would stitch all the local layers together for you so you can analyze it as needed. 
 
 Government is currently funding the creation of things like the same land parcels and streets within multiple agencies at the same time. Let's stop funding that and fund the local agencies so they can feed up to the national level. Our world changes every day and the local level is the place to best capture the updates. For example the CENSUS could reference a "Live" view of where they need to go. Add in a "Live" view of satellite imagery with a three inch pixel size as a background and you have a great operational stage to work upon. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/metadata-mapper
 
 
 Metadata Mapper
 
 In the effort to resolve inconsitant nominclature and data access methods, Recovery.Gov should implement an isolation layer that sits on top of all its data sources. This isolation layer would essentially map data attributes to a common format, thus providing simplified and homogeneous information access accross disparate data structures. 
 
 Getting to a common data model is extremely important when attempting to implement sophisticated Business Intelligence Visualization interfaces. Most of the heavy lifting is on the data side of the equation. By simplyfing mixed data souces through an isolation mapping layer Recovery.Gov could expidite efforts in producing a variety of information based user interfaces, that are straight forward and understandable by the information seeking community. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/feedback-from-the-president
 
 
 Feedback from the President
 
 President Obama personally comments on specific recovery programs. Offers criticisms, suggestions, praise. 
 
 Will increase site traffic exponentially. Although he is obviously a busy man. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/direct-input-of-progress-reports-by-recovery-project-managers
 
 
 Direct Input of Progress Reports by Recovery Project Managers
 
 
 A designated senior manager for each Recovery Project is given an ID and a password. Using these the manager will contribute regular reports to an appropriate web site. 
 Managers must choose a specific timing interval between these reports. The interval might be for example between weekly and quarterly and would depend on the type of work being done and on the length of the project. 
 Each contribution will contain a free text report on the incremental progress and the work done since the previous report. Each report will contain a numeric data summary. The values required for each summary will be entered via a grid that contains a field for each data entity previously agreed for the Recovery Project or for a family of Recovery Projects. N.B. A family may contain every road and bridge Recovery Project in the country for example whilst an individual Recovery Project may be one which stands alone from any other nationally. 
 The fields required for each grid will be selected from those produced by the distillation of ideas currently being collected this week on this web site. Each Recovery Project grid will evidence entities like: Progress; Expenditure; Accountability; Time/ Quality/ Expenditure (key criteria used by project managers). The reporting process needs to keep to a minimum the number of entities needed to maintain public transparency. This proposal is intended only to supplement the existing management systems it does not pretend to replace them. 
 The reporting web site chosen will also produce a RAG Report (Red/ Amber/ Green) for each report submitted to give immediate superficial visibility for each project and for each family project member. 
 Every report will be made available in it's entirety to a public who may access them in a variety of ways e.g. by subject (e.g. green projects); by location (State County); by cost (big/ medium/ small); projects on time; projects in danger of falling behind etc. etc. 
 To give greater transparency and to nurture greater public involvement the public should be allowed to interact individual reports of their choice by submitting questions to the reporting manager or by submitting individual proposals on how individuals might offer a helping hand to overcome local issues or problems raised in the reporting cycle. 
 Reporting managers should be given the discretion to answer the public individually or collectively by using the same reporting media. Where appropriate individual members of the public should be invited to participate and to help the Recovery Project direct. 
 Greetings from Lindfield the other side of the pond (RH16 2AA) 
 
 Speed of response (topicality) 
 Transparency (visibility) 
 Accuracy &amp; Accountability (managers provide the information) 
 RAG Reporting for all projects (traffic lights report progress) 
 Coherence (Regular news and metrics) 
 Interactivity (citizens can be involved if they wish) 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/open-standards-based-oversight-platform
 
 
 Open, Standards-Based, Oversight Platform 
 
 A holistic approach to Enterprise Risk, Compliance, and Oversight that helps institutions create a single, integrated platform allowing all stakeholders to monitor and report conformance to agency and regulatory policies. The approach focuses on capabilities that implement an enterprise-wide audit and control environment that spans operations, geographies, and business lines. Implementing this platform and tools will help streamline processes and workflow, as well as enable greater collaboration and analysis and reporting across the oversight environment. 
 
 The <a href="http://www.recovery.gov/?q=content/recovery-accountability-and-transparency-board&amp;x=1"> Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board (RATB) </a> is responsible for overseeing all funds under the Recovery Act and providing the public with a direct and immediate link to spending through Recovery.gov. The RATB not only wants to provide the public with unprecedented oversight of Recovery Act funds, but also ensure swift and immediate action to prevent fraud, waste, and mismanagement. 
 
 Recovery.gov is currently working to provide an on-line complaint and hotline service to log suspected fraudulent use of the recovery money. In the meantime, it is recommending the use of the autonomous Offices of Inspector General at the Federal Level to report fraud, waste, or mismanagement of Recovery Act funds. 
 
 Unfortunately these OIG's do not have the ability to share or collaborate - their information technology platforms have been designed around their stated responsibilities. Generally, each organization collects its own data and maintains its own technology platforms necessary to perform their oversight function. 
 
 Until these issues are addressed, information technology will inhibit rather than support a modern, unified and collaborative oversight and regulatory environment. 
 
 As Recovery.gov looks to improve this process, it should ensure the most current data is made available from a single, viable source to ensure compliance. Microsoft offers software and solutions that quickly integrate disparate 'silos' and unlock value by connecting systems that drive new operational efficiencies, increase transparency and accelerate innovation across the enterprise. 
 
 An example of where existing investments can be leveraged to provide a more effective view of the data is Microsoft's <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/industry/government/solutions/Single_View_Platform/default.aspx" target="_blank"> Single View Platform </a>. This solution leverages capabilities that agencies already possess coupled with public service mapping capabilities to deliver a geographic view of complex information and data sets across multiple roles and location. The Single View Platform provides: 
 
 
 Comprehensible visual presentation of data. 
 
 Access to real-time or near real-time information. 
 
 Integration of multiple information sets from disparate sources. 
 
 Sharing information inside and outside the agency, with restricted access controls. 
 
 Powerful Business Intelligence and Analytics capabilities. 
 
 Portfolio Management, Task Management and Tracking engines. 
 
 Interoperability with existing and legacy systems. 
 
 A Single View Platform solution can be deployed using the existing agency investments coupled with public data services to provide transparency and accountability quickly and at low cost. 
 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/agencies-temp-co-prevents-citizens-to-get-jobs-hiring-h1-visas-why
 
 
 Agencies/ Temp.co. prevents Citizens to get jobs hiring H1 Visas, Why?
 
 Thank you for the feedback. We have to do a lot, train Amercan Citizens for Job readiness in various fields,because millions of H! Visa holders in USA working for agencies / Temp. companies occupying high positions and jobs. The Agencies are hiring H1 visa holders and sending them to various companies and getting their high income. This Prevents US Citizens getting jobs because of all these Agencies. The Government has to do great a lot to stop this.All Agencies/Temp.agencies should hire Citizens instead of temportary H1 Visas and other illegal imigrants. 
 
 There are millions of H 1 Visa Holders working hired by Agnecies and Temporary companies supporting this temps. Visa holders, paying attorney fees to help getting Green cards.These agencies ignore Citizens and makie tons of money and helping temp. visa holders. The agencies throughout United states. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/how-to-improve-the-value-of-recovery-gov-data
 
 
 How to Improve the Value of Recovery.gov Data
 
 The Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board should work with the Federal Chief Financial Officer's (CFO) Council and industry to develop guidance for agencies in securing Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) financial management platforms to manage the financial data submitted to Recovery.gov. This guidance should encourage agencies to purchase Information Technology (IT) solutions that easily integrate with existing systems, and enable agencies to view financial data at the macro- and micro-levels (e.g., project code, organization, by vendor, etc.). In addition, this guidance should recommend that these solutions are scalable and facilitate agency use of financial management data for improved performance management, project management, and capital planning. 
 
 Providing transparency and accountability into the use of American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA) funds is essential. Just as important, however, is making sure that agencies reap the benefits of this data to improve planning and financial management. Without the capability to view and analyze this data, reporting to Recovery.gov runs the risk of becoming simply another government data call. Unfortunately, many agencies rely on a complex system of Excel spreadsheets and/or homegrown IT systems to manage their financial data. The result is that these agencies are unable to fully analyze ARRA - and other agency data - over the long-term to make better business decisions that link program, organization, and agency investments with performance metrics and mission success. With guidance from the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, the CFO Council, and industry, agencies will see purchasing financial management IT solutions as an Administration priority and act on it, ultimately improving the value of Recovery.gov data and the effectiveness of government. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/reporting-should-be-reliable-timely-complete-and-ensure-reconciliation
 
 
 Reporting should be reliable, timely, complete and ensure reconciliation 
 
 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) requirements are linked to Federal Financial Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA) by Sec. 1526[c] 7 and EESA/TARP by Sec. 114. Therefore, all reporting requirements of FFATA apply to ARRA. One exception is that the $25,000 threshold does not apply to ARRA reporting. All Federal expenditures should be accounted for to the last penny as required by the ARRA. 
 · Reconciliation needs to be accomplished between the following reporting systems: 
 
 a. State Recovery.gov websites 
 b. Federal Recovery.gov Agency website 
 c. Federal Recovery.gov Board website 
 d. Office of Management and Budget Reporting 
 e. Department of Treasury, Financial Management Service Government-wide Accounting (GWA) system and their related: 
 · Daily and Monthly Treasury Statements 
 · Combined Statement of Receipts, Outlays, and Balances, and 
 · Financial Report of the United States Government. 
 The collection of data using spreadsheets will not accomplish this objective . 
 · Expenditure Reporting for Prime and sub-tier reporting for contracts, grants, and loans must be accounted for to the "nth tier", per FFATA requirements. The "first tier only" requirement of Recovery.gov ARRA requirements does not meet the FFATA requirement of "nth tier" reporting. 
 · Accounting control of data is critical. The source of data should originate from Federal agencies and contractor, grantee, and loan lenders' audited accounting systems, not from spreadsheets or miscellaneous unreliable formats in order to insure accuracy and reduce or eliminate reconciliation problems. 
 · Any system should provide for analysis of the performance of grants, contracts, and loans not just expenditure reporting. 
 
 Transparent reporting needs to be reliable, timely, and accessible to all to insure trust and accountability. 
 
 
 
 These measures are required to conform to the all transparency and accountability legislation. Reconciliation is a key element to ensure accurate, reliable data for decision making. 
 
 Performance management is necessary because just knowing how much money was spent on a project or initiative is not as meaningful as determining whether the project or initiative was over or under budget, and how it met expected timelines, and achieved projected results. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/open-budget-down-to-the-program-and-or-project
 
 
 Open Budget down to the program and/or project
 
 A multiple tier budget that must foot and tie, first tier at that macro level, US Government and State Government, the next tier will the the agency, with the last tier representing what the funds are being spent on. There needs to be an owner, some that is accountable end to end, for the expenditure - no owner, no expenditure....a committee can not be an owner. Each program needs to be distinct, with an executive overview, the discription of what is being done, the value derived, jobs created permanetly or temporarily, and the time horizon. Every organization bidding on the work effort needs to identified. Each must agree to live up to those guidelines identified. If found to be fradulant, there needs to be consequences clearly laid out in the contractring mechanism. There needs to be a 5 business day where the final contracting will be available on line for those that wish to comment via a blog. The governing agency is required to review the blogs, with a summary of their findings and what if anything they are going to do with the ideas submitted.... not a black hole. The owner will provide a milestone workplan with a score card on their ability to deliver on the objectives set out. The agency overseeing this undertaking will have more help than they want, but they will also have the ability to see when things are going terribly wrong. Each month, there should be a reconcilliation of funds allocated to value received....when allocation gets ahead of the value/milestone achievement, all will see and the agency should have complete visability. These should be rolled up so we can see how we are doing. Is this hard, not really. There are oranizations with national systems that can support this effort with a little modification. If this makes sense, please use existing infrastructure, have those organizations provide the framework that works best in their technologies.... 
 
 Visibility of my tax dollars is important. My ability to comment on how those dollars are going to be spent via a blog, my ability to watch the progress, and to see the actual value of the undertaken achieved would be great. We need to celebrate the successes and address the failures, which hopefully can be seen early via progress reports that all can see. 
 The cost should be minimal, if you use social networking tools available today with modification - you have the ability to support a very important national report card. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/earned-value-management-for-infrastructure-projects
 
 
 Earned Value Management for Infrastructure Projects
 
 Require Earned Value Management for Major Infrastructure Projects. 
 
 
 With $150 Billion to be spent on new infrastructure, it is important that these projects be managed well. Earned Value Management provides a proven way to track not just how much has been spent on a project, but how much "value" has been "earned" based on original cost estimates. By the time as little as 15-20% of the project has been completed, the estimated cost at completion can be estimated with a high degree of accuracy. This gives time to either correct poorly managed efforts or cancel them before significant funds have been wasted. This is not "new science", and there are many knowledgeable practitioners. Demonstrated skill in this discipline is required to achieve Project Management Professional (PMP) and PRINCE2 certifications. However As DoD has recently discovered, without strong oversight of the requirement, Earned Value implementations will not be robust. The Office of the Secretary of Defense has recently issued more stringent guidance to correct this problem. This should be carried over to the major capital projects under the Recover Act. It's like telling someone how to lose weight (eat less, do more), but without discipline, they tend to fall short of expectations. 

 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/weekly-reports
 
 
 Weekly Reports
 
 
 I suggest that the the weekly reports by the different federal Agencies be a continued document, with most recent updates posted at the top. 
 Also, provide a meaning for the codes WITH the dollar amounts. 
 
 Rather than opening a new document eachtime and having to review what
was submitted to date. As it is, the data can very confusing and researching can be a waste of time. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/waste-fraud-and-abuse-detection
 
 
 Waste fraud and abuse detection 
 
 Give the taxpayers their money back based proportionately on the amount each paid in 2008 taxes. 
 
 
 It comes with a 100% guarantee that those monies will not be
subjected to waste, fraud or abuse by politicians, their bureaucracies or any
government contractor. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/utilize-nist-to-define-core-data-elements-that-will-allow-for-transparency
 
 
 Utilize NIST to define core data elements that will allow for transparency
 
 One idea is to have the National Institute of Standards and Technology to define specific data elements that would be required for agency level data to improve transparency. This would standardize / normalize the data sets across the entire government. These would be the starting blue prints for every program that would be easily auditable as well as added to as programs evolve. Then NIST would have an update process to have these additions to be added to their national standard. 
 
 Let me first put my point of view in to perspective. I am a entrepreneur that has owned quite a few companies and is looking at this open forum as a way to discuss ideas and best practices with no preconceived notions or solutions to sell. I am fully vested in this country and would like to see it perform as well as any company can. 
 As the government is investing Billions of our tax dollars on how to fix the health care system the fundamental question comes down to what went wrong and why is there a need to fix this. While this may seem like a foreign topic, it is not as foreign as we may think. In fact, I believe the issue comes down to the same fundamental question that is being asked at Recovery.org. 
 How do we improve government so there is transparency and accountability throughout all government and the government contractors? 
 Private businesses have struggled with transparency and accountability as they have grown for many years but their ability to be more agile than the public sector has been expedited as their ownership has been held to a limited number of key stakeholders. This has allowed for the smaller issues to be addressed as they are found in organizations. 
 Businesses have built large data sets but by standardizing and normalizing their data in certain keys the ability to transfer and analyze this data has helped out tremendously. This is essentially what the White House has asked for NIST to do for the health care industry. So, in short, it would be a common sense opportunity unless it takes too much time to get these standards developed. 
 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/road-condition-monitoring
 
 
 Road Condition Monitoring
 
 Our country's transportation infrastructure and our roadways in particular our one of our most valuable assets, yet the way roadway improvements are proposed, monitored and implemented are often through an antiquated process based upon mid 20th century policies and procedures. With the technology available today States could implement enterprise-wide road condition monitoring solutions that better track and project road conditions and allow departments of transportation to better invest resources in a more targeted fashion. 
 
 Currently hundreds of millions of dollars each year could be recovered by focusing resources where they are really needed rather than allocating them by an outdated and inefficient schedule. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-open-public-integrated-architectures-for-recovery.gov
 
 
 Use Open Public Integrated Architectures for Recovery.Gov
 
 The idea is to use a cogent architecture, integrated at the legal, business and technical layers, to achieve the goals, objectives and obligations for reporting, transparency and oversight. 
 
 This is important because it provides a mental model to make faster progress, incorporate many of the ideas and tools suggested so far into a broader reusable framework and because it allows for distributed work 
 More information is available at www.opendialogcoation.org 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-open-public-integrated-architectures-for-recovery.gov-1
 
 
 Use Open Public Integrated Architectures for Recovery.Gov
 
 The idea is to use a cogent architecture, integrated at the legal, business and technical layers, to achieve the goals, objectives and obligations for reporting, transparency and oversight. 
 
 This is important because it provides a mental model to make faster progress, incorporate many of the ideas and tools suggested so far into a broader reusable framework and because it allows for distributed work 
 More information is available at www.opendialogcoalition.org 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/ask-a-librarian
 
 
 Ask a librarian
 
 The acquisition, organization and access of digital information is not a new problem. It has been addressed by the library community for years. 

Some of the aspects that have been addressed by the library community include issues of 
1. a shared taxonomy or metadata designed for findability.
2. lightweight data models
 
1. Taxonomy
Use existing topic taxonomies. Either existing public policy vocabularies or other subject organization models. Topics cross institutional boundaries so organizing by institution may be limiting. 

2.Lightweight Data Models
Many other suggestions revolve around a central data model that indicates both provenance and a content.
http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/enable-an-interconnected-discussion-of-the-recovery-act-through-standards
http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/linked-open-data

Look at the EAD - Encoded Archival Description which is used by the archival community. The way the technology was deployed can also easily be scaled to accommodate government data, documents and information. It is truly lightweight enough to enable cross-institution retrieval. http://www.loc.gov/ead/
OAI - Open Archives Initiative http://www.openarchives.org/

 
 
 
 No need to reinvent the wheel. No need to use proprietary inventions. NO need to do new negotiations. Good organization tools already exist, have already been agreed upon and are Free!

More to say but it is 11:59pm 

 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/responsiveness-architecture
 
 
 Responsiveness architecture
 
 Develop, document, refine, implement, and evaluate error collection and correction architecture. We need a listening department, one with more empathy toward all citizens. 
 Availability, reliability, maintainability (ARM) indicators provide system health check 
 Provision of information as a Customer service (IT services) 
 IT/IS department - what is needed? 
 Users - what is available? 
 
 With the increasing availability of massive amounts of data, hierarchies can get exceedingly deep. While computers and databases can conceivably be tens of levels deep, the human internal cognitive structure and hence short term ability to remember ranges from 4 - 10 digits or objects (2 - 3.3 bits). The error collection and correction architect will address documentation and workshops on the elements described above, thus developing on on-going framework of agility, accuracy and responsiveness. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/use-geographic-information-systems
 
 
 Use Geographic Information Systems
 
 
 
 
 Geographic Information System (a.k.a computer mapping) is a
powerful technology for data collection, management, analysis and visualization
that can help track the expenditure and use of stimulus funds. Along with non-technical methods like
GoogleMaps, GIS can be used to present meaningful data and information to the nation. 
 

 
 The need for transparency and accountability requires more than simple visualization - it needs robust and sound analytics that can expose unwarranted geographic variation in spending. GIS can accomplish this task easily. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/social-security-paymens-to-working-federal-employees
 
 
 Social Security paymens to working Federal employees
 
 I am a Federal employee with 40 years experience. When I turned 65, I began to receive full social secuirty payments even thought I am still working full time. But when I retire from Federal Service, my social security will be amost cut in half under the Windfall Eliminaion provision. This is assinine. I suggest not paying social security payments for persons working full time when they are eligible. But, then pay them their full social security benefits when they retire from Federal service. Since I am now 73, I've received approximately $50,000 in social security payments as a "windfall" to my Federal salary. Yet when I retire, I will lose half my earned benefits. The logic behind this and the unneccary cost to the Treasury is patently rediculous. 
 
 It would save the Social Security Fund from making payments to those fully employed persons and when they retire it would pay them what they are entitled to. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/search-capabilities
 
 
 Search Capabilities
 
 Add a search function to the site that can be directed outside of Recovery, to retrieve information from all federal agency "recovery" websites as well as state and local "recovery" websites, with a futher capability of then drilling down to the local or agency level. Combine this with mapping so the citizenry can map what they find in the search to their locale and actually see where funding is going. 
 
 This takes Recovery.gov to a new level of transparency for the public. It not only shows from the federal angle where funds are going, but searching other governmental agency recovery sites brings it all together in one place, making it easier for the citizen to focus in on what's of interest to them. 
 When the information is aggregated in the search index created in this manner, then it can be subcategorized or clustered in ways that make it easier for the public to dive into the data. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/apps-for-recovery
 
 
 Apps for Recovery
 
 Provide standard feeds for all Recovery information. 
 Have a month-long contest for individuals to create the best Apps for Recovery. Provide small prizes/incentives. Much like Apps for Democracy by DC government. 
 
 Fosters outside innovation and entrepreneurship. Allows government to get applications quickly. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/leverage-the-input-procuremen-reporting-capability-already-being-collected
 
 
 Leverage the INPUT procuremen reporting capability already being collected.
 
 The data collected needs to be from an existing source that Federal agencies are using. The FPDS-Next Generation system is such a system. I am aware that INPUT already utilizes this system to extrapolate their reporting for each of the Federal Agencies. If the Agencies are being directed to report the Recovery procurements in a distinct way then that data can be captured and reported. The Administration needs to start some level of partnership or consideration arrangement with INPUT so that a mass public audience could have visibility without the fee. 
 
 There is a timeliness factor and the importance of veriable data. FPDS-NG is not perfect tool however it is an established and recognized tool that procurement professionals and OMB are familiar with. Introducing a new data source and reporting capability is not prudent with the timeframes needed for this undertaking. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/a-wiki-like-system-for-people-to-submit-ideas
 
 
 a wiki like system for people to submit ideas
 
 a wiki like wikipedia but a better one like the one at <a class="external-link" href="http://www.tiddlywiki.com">www.tiddlywiki.com</a> a wiki in a file 
 
 this is a simple wiki but very very flexible and easy to use and can be done very easily and help others a lot by listening to thier feedback 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/open-an-api-fodevelopers-to-get-data
 
 
 Open an API fodevelopers to get data
 
 I think the best way to share information is to provide an API and allow developers/companies to consume the informaiton and present it in all different ways (Widgets, facebook, web , iphone , andorid, flash etc. etc. ) 
 
 i would think that opening the api up would allow for open informaiton sharing for multiple platforms , this way the site would not have to build all of these applicaitons and allow for anyone to connect and get data and present it in any way . 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/alfresco-for-web-site-tableau-for-visualization-cmis-for-data-sharing
 
 
 Alfresco for Web Site; Tableau for visualization; CMIS for data sharing; 
 
 Web Site CMS + Virtualized computing clouds Use the open source enterprise-grade content management system Alfresco for the Web site. Run it on virtual machines on private computing clouds (VMware vSphere 4) for maximum scalability. Couple that with Amazon computing cloud clusters to handle load spikes. 
 Tableau for data Visualization, Exploration &amp; Dashboards Use Tableau (server-based version) for the visualization of data. Work with Tableau and data visualization experts such as Edward Tufte to create analysis packagages for data visualization that can easily be manipulated by Joe data or experts. Deliver the raw data, but also deliver the tools to extend the utility of the data to a wider audience. Tableau provides tools to not only visualize data, but to explore the data. 
 Content Management Interoperability Services (CMIS) CMIS or Content Management Interoperability Services, was proposed as a
draft standard in September 2008 and submitted to OASIS. Proposed by
the largest ECM vendors (IBM, EMC, Microsoft) It is based on REST and SOAP bindings for content exchange
between content repositories regardless of the ECM platform. This would
make it simple for multiple agencies to publish content on their own
sites and have it automatically be aggregated on a
single web presence. 
 Alfresco is CMIS-capable Alfresco supports CMIS. Given that it is open source, a content-delivery package could be created to be installed locally (or run on cloud services) by any agency. This would cut out redundant work to create infrastructure by each agency. 
 Alfresco supports ATOM, XForms, and has a light-weight scripting framework (SURF). The scripting framework can talk to the repository back-end; making it simple to create packaged web-applications that can be distributed quickly. In addition,being able to talk to repositories using CMIS would simplify the data integration problem. 
 Alfresco is extensible ; open source Engage the developer community to create a solution around an established enterprise-grade solution. 
 Alfresco supports JBoss jBPM for packaged business processes Utilize jBoss jBPM that Alfresco uses for designing pre-packaged processes that support waste, fraud, and abuse detection. 
 
 It combines open source and best-in-class resources to deliver a solution quickly. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/workload-management
 
 
 Workload management
 
 With individuals so busy multi-tasking - there is a need for workload management software 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/broadcast-live-on-the-internet-all-it-contracts-awarded-and-negotiations
 
 
 Broadcast live on the internet all IT contracts awarded and negotiations
 
 Allow the general public to know who is making a profit during this time of crisis. 
 
 Other ideas have mentioned to follow the money. We shall not forget to follow the money spent on IT vendors to follow the money for other projects. We have to know exactly how we are spending every penny and who is getting those dollars. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/remove-the-rat-handle-why-not-tab
 
 
 Remove the "RAT" handle - why not "TAB"?
 
 The importance of proper naming of things and the mesage you send with certain imagery: 
 Congress needs to show some respect to whistleblowers and the too clever "RAT" acronym is inappropriate. Why not change it to Transparency and Accountability Board (TAB)? As in keeping Tabs on spending? Forget the soft drink references. If I had something to disclose on your website, I would not want to be associated with RAT's! 
 
 
 Information Technology is only as good as the quality of information gathered: garbage in is garbage out. General Devaney, you have been saddled with a moniker that does not inspire confidence or respect. Do not go with the flow: redefine your agency's image. The quality of your tips and leads will follow suit. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/date-time-stamp
 
 
 Date Time Stamp?
 
 What would be helpful at this "A National Dialogue" site, is for each entry to have a Date, Time and Location (city/state or Zip Code) displayed for each short and long entry. If this site is example of what you have in mind for report generation.... it needs some major work and updating to the present era. 
 
 So everyone knows, when ideas are post and from where (USA, or other world?) 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/beyond-the-information-strategic-and-tactical-governance
 
 
 Beyond the Information: Strategic and Tactical Governance
 
 Include a strategic and tactical management/governance system on top of/in conjunction with data collection middleware/metadata models so that real decisions can be made based on the underlying information. 
 
 Per the e-mail sent addressing potential data models and metadata/middle ware tools: Collecting all of the information in the world does not lead to proactive accountability unless you are actively able to make decisions based on the information. Unless there is a real threat of losing funds to a more worthy recipient (worthiness, in this case, can be based on efficiency or effectiveness metrics), there is little incentive to improve the processes by which funds are consumed. By implementing a strategic and tactical management layer fed by data from the collection mechanisms discussed here, you can answer questions such as: 
 1) What are the most efficient uses of funds? Which recipients create the most jobs OR serve the most patients OR construct the most miles of road, etc.? 
 2) What would be the overall impact of switching funds from one recipient (or set of recipients) to another? (A what-if scenario capability.) 
 3) What steps need be taken in order to effectively do a switch and insure that it happens quickly and efficiently? (Tactical governance such as notifications, etc.) 
 Only by leveraging all of the collected data to make future decisions based on performance will ultimately lead to a culture of accountability and the end result that all of us want from the transparency involved. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/technology-solution-optimization
 
 
 Technology/Solution Optimization
 
 
 Technology/Solution Optimization 
 Consider building a solution that really adds value for your partners. That has the potential to be internalized into their business processes in meaningful ways not just something that satisfies your basic requirements. 
 Build to a non proprietary extensible service based framework - SOA 
 Incorporate open standards with maximum acceptance and the strongest tool support 
 Build common enabling services to minimize cost, simplify buy in and align with business functions 
 Reuse as much proven technology as possible 
 Error on the side of simplicity and transparency 
 Agility, flexibility, and interoperability should drive the design 
 Adopt new technologies/standards prudently to evolve the model. 
 Standardize information exchange metadata 
 Consider all sophistication levels for access to the data 
 Reduce burden and costs for submitters and users 
 Promote interoperability through the use of open standards 
 Build an architecture not tools

 
 These concepts represent 8 years of practical design and implementation lessons learned from a nationwide system implementation that closely paralells this effort. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/grow-a-development-data-analysis-community
 
 
 Grow a Development &amp; Data Analysis Community
 
 Recovery.gov has a chance to be a model of data access for the entire US Government. What follows is to build not just tools and reports but a community of developers on top of that data. This community can collaboratively develop free software tools - tailor-made for this data - that can evolve as the data sources get richer. (see Ubuntu.com for a thriving example community) 
 
 The tools to build this community exist already in software projects like Trac, MediaWiki, and Git. The developers can use their tools of choice but programming languages such as PHP, Python, and Perl, as well as databases like MySQL and PostgreSQL would naturally play a large part in building this community. 
 
 If this effort is to benefit the people of the United States optimally, it should attract the best and brightest globally in terms of developers. The tools mentioned above are what those developers want to use. 
 
 Another goal should be to keep costs to the public as low as possible. Under this community-building model, companies will sprout up and fund themselves to provide extra polish, support, and analysis over and above what the community builds. 
 
 Sincerely, 
 
 David Sterry 
 TryGNULinux.com 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/corruption-in-state-and-local-government
 
 
 Corruption in State and local government
 
 My idea is to HOLD LEADERS ACCOUNTABLE FOR THEIR ACTIONS OR LACK THEREOF. My state received $93 million in Energy recovery funding according the NE.gov website for low income asst and weatherization. Yet, despite my numerous emails to the Governor, local attempts for help, I haven't had any gas service or hot water nor heat for over two weeks now. It is bills or REVISED BILLS such as LB 288 or LB 626 or LB 237A for example where local officials cam "make up" their own "unethical" standards that needs to be brought up and held accountable under the ARRA PROGRAM. A person may want to look at 81-1506 as well. 
 I AM WONDERING IF THERE ARE ENOUGH PEOPLE LEFT IN TODAY'S WORLD WHO ARE HONEST OR ETHICAL ENOUGH TO PUT HUMAN LIFE AND ETHICS AND MORALS ABOVE AND BEYOND MONEY AND POLITICS IN ORDER FOR THIS WHOLE ARRA THING TO WORK. I CERTAINLY PRAY TO GOD THERE IS FOR THE SAFETY OF OUR CHILDREN IN TODAY'S SOCIETY. 
 
 even indigent people deserve basic human rights, such as hot water and heat, despite whether they have the money to pay their gas bill or not. this is what the government and the ARRA is SUPPOSED TO BE FOR. This is what ELECTED POLITIANS ARE SUPPOSED TO DO IS PROTECT THE AMERICAN CITIZENS, ESPECIALLY CHILDREN, NOT MAKE UP RULES SO THEY CANNOT BE VACCINATED, OR DENIED HUMANE CONDITIONS DUE TO PERSONAL GAINS.. THIS IS ABSURD... BUT YET , IT CONTINUES ON AND ON EVERYDAY, AS WE SPEAK, THEY GET RICHER, WE GET SICKER.. 
 WHY IS THAT? 
 THEY may kill me for trying, but I will be on this TRANSPARANCY AND RECOVERY THING AND STAND UP FOR WHAT I BELIEVE IN AND WHAT IS RIGHT, AND FOR HUMAN DECENCY AND HUMAN AND CIVIL RIGHTS UNTIL THEY DO, 
 be it by chemicals, swine flu, tainted peaut butter, 
 Whats Next? 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/fraud-awareness-training-for-federal-employees
 
 
 Fraud Awareness training for federal employees
 
 Federal employees are the "eyes and ears" of their respective programs, grants, and contracts. While almost everyone knows what constitutes "lying, cheating, and stealing" there is a lot of uncertainty of what to do about suspected fraud, partly because there is no current training in fraud awareness. Fraud awareness training is not universally mandated and many contracting officers, COTR's and others are not required to file financial disclosure forms. Institute annual fraud awareness training through the website Recovery.Gov so feds have a better idea of what to report, how to report it, and confidence that their reports won't be "Madoffed" away. 
 
 This training/outreach will improve both the quality and quantity of data and tips coming from the "front lines" of where ARRA funds are being spent. 
 

src: http://www.thenationaldialogue.org/ideas/secure-coding-training-for-developers
 
 
 Secure Coding Training for Developers
 
 The data government houses and has to protect is often times sensitive in nature. Developers in the workforce today often have not had training in writing secure code. Higher education institutions have yet to implement security into their curriculum. Training for both those entering the public sector workforce and those already in it is a must. 
 
 Government budgets are tight and yet more and more public services are being offered online. Online services are a wonderful advantage for the constituents, although it puts their personal data at risk. As hackers get more sophisticated, so must the methods of protection. The only way to accomplish this is to build security into the development process of our applications. 
 
